Name,Gender Race Occupation,Description

Mamanto Tharl,Etiquette and Subterfuge," A haughty Elven dandy, Mamanto struts in front of his class, demonstrating how one walks like a noble. Sporting a frilled lilac chemise and skin tight black leggings, Mamanto projects his voice with volume and enunciates every instruction to his students like a real nobleman. ""Walk like them, talk like them or else you'll never get within a mile of them!"" His students try their best to focus, but his overpowering perfume clouds the air and dulls their senses. A similar perfume is given to promising students as a graduation gift; an alchemical concoction made to daze and distract those nearby, and mask the scent of any noxious poison one might carry."
Professor Koro,Working in groups," The professor is not human, but some kind of aberrant squid from the far realms with immense power; he can move with blinding speed, is entirely immune to normal damage, and can channel his power into enormous explosions capable of destroying mountains. Koro is recognizably a threat to the entire world, but he teaches his class how to work together during assassinations to be able to accomplish feats they never could on their own, with the end goal being his own assassination at their hands. No class has ever been successful, but each gets slightly closer, and graduates with far more skill than most assassins who do not take the course."
never,Cleaning," When teaching, there is always a scenario prepared, frequently from other instructors homework. He will point at important details such as spills or small 'evidence' (hair, dust, footprints, etc.), make demonstrations with various potions and magic items, and then leave the students to figure out what he means, only giving approving nods or disapproving stares. He will use useful magic for ease, but will never use verbal spells. Students tend to learn how to use corrosive potions, blood sponges, incinerators, spells (if capable), disintegration effects, flooding techniques, using bags of holding for corpses, and, if present in the world, basic knowledge of a sphere of annihilation in order to permanently destroy all that enters its shadowy domain."
Drek,Theatricality," A lean muscled half-orc with a penchant for the dramatic. Named himself Drek, which translates into ""worthless"" in orcish, out of a constant melodramatic hate for his bloodline. ""Smoke and mirrors are just as valuable as a blade"" Teaches his students how to pull off a job in the most over the top way possible. Those who graduate from his course can make a kill look like an act of the gods, a devil's command, and anything in between. This course tends to attract mopey lone-wolf types."
"Dingo ""Silentfart"" Nackle",Assasination in public," Dingo is a smart and light hearted Gnome with bright, well trimmed hair, and sparkling green eyes. Excels at killing targets unnoticed, and finds great entertainment in taking out political targets among nobles. He's good with poison, and enjoys to use fairly unnoticeable tricks to kill his targets. Probably one of the most energetic lecturers, but tends to get really off topic, and regularly pranks his students."
Oleg Bluntaxe,Hitting people hard with an axe until they die," Sometimes all you need is to kill someone without any form of grace to make an example, and Oleg is the man for just that. He's a bald, dimwitted ex-lumberjack, with scruffy beard and has a great passion for chopping more than just trees. Lectures usually revolve around hitting stuff. Hard."
Toren Brightglow,Dinner Etiquette," Toren is a light haired, big bellied, constantly smiling dwarf. He teaches the proper methods of preparing a dinner for high class targets. The class focuses on such things as creating a menu, proper cooking techniques, silverware placement, and how to conduct light conversation. He makes each student throw a dinner party for the class each week, though its usually better to go hungry if you can't figure out if the nightshade is in the sea bass or the soup."
Solana Ashaar,Long Distance Targeting (Sniping)," A cheerful half-elf with fiery red hair, unkempt and cut short. She is usually pleasant to be around, and she helps those who ask for it, but when she is serious about a topic she is intimidating. Students will need to have saintly patience and be prepared for plenty of... unorthodox training methods, as sniping isn't exactly a straightforward technique to teach."
Sam,Deception and Illusion," While it is true that being a doppleganger Sam has an unfair advantage that they cannot teach to their students. Sam only takes in students with the drive to use spells such as ""disguise self"" and ""polymorph."" Sam teaches that nearly anything can be hidden in plain sight, from the people next to you to the weapons on your person. Sam has a tendency to walk into the first day of class as a student in naught but their uniform, and then walks to the front of the class and pulls out all manor of weapons from misc. polymorphed items. They also teach a class on conjuration for the higher level students."
Velyr,"""You never climb a castle wall without knowing what you'll find on the other side. Many of your contracts will prevent you from simply murdering your target, my love. I assure you that, with the letters you write, you can kill without a weapon, from any distance."""," Velyr is, by all appearances, human. He seems to have short hair, trimmed beard, and very well fitted dress. His manners are fluid, automatic, and above all precise. By all appearances, he would pass by unnoticed in any crowd of well-to-do citizens. By all appearances, he has a warm, soothing voice which makes those unwary feel safe near him. The close observer, however, may find his cold stare and toothy grin unnatural."
"MINIMUM!!""","""Which reminds me of how i lost my leg. You see..."""," He is, however, an altogether wonderful guy once you get to know him. His classes, while challenging, are always reasonable and he takes a lighthearded approach to economic math. When he digresses though, his stories get a bit... intense. It's the mood swings, probably- or perhaps the whisky. Or maybe it's due to sudden, crashing memories of his past. It's tough to say."
Varus Senepes,"""Vivian you do realize that you have FAILED... to sterilize your knife, upon puncturing your finger? Supposing you did the mix CORRECTLY... you will be dead in thirty seconds, unless you prepare your antidote with... legendary, speed. ...Miss Vivian I do believe you have just committed not ONLY to the failure of this course but your own demise as well. Drink this... now leave, before I decide to make YOU my next... ingredient."""," Alchemy, poisons and oils. Varus is a black haired, pale, centuries old elf, who talks with quite... pronounced... articulation. His robes hide his features so well he appears as a specter most days, if he appears at all. It amuses him to teach while invisible, to better catch slacking or cheating students. Incidentally, it also aids with visual demonstrations some days. His class is the most difficult to pass in the entire academy, due to the rigorous study and absolutely vicious classes. Being called upon to recite ingredients or cooking methods is quite dreaded, as failure could mean imbibing any number of potions to demonstrate the antidote application method. It would be quite an odd semester if every student survived, though Varus has never deliberately killed any of them. Yet, anyway."
"Loraine ""Doc"" Highfellow",Practical Anatomy," A former medical practitioner during the days of the Great plague, Loraine is cold, calculating, and unforgiving. She is a slender human woman, rather unremarkable looking, with brown eyes and shoulder-length black hair. The first day of her class is infamous among students, as she brings in two live humanoid subjects, and orders a student to attempt to kill one by stabbing them once. Often, it results in several minutes of agonized screaming from the victim, during which Loraine proceeds to demonstrate the importance of a thoughtfully-placed knife, ending the other subject's life quickly and quietly in naught but a few seconds. Her final exam can be heard throughout the school as, for a brief moment, dozens of people cry out in pain and fear before their lives are swiftly and efficiently snuffed by the students."
Darrio,Culinary Animosity," Darrio is a human male of average build with slightly graying hair. He is most often see dressed white, the way you would expect any good chef or cook to be. The first few weeks of his class always start with regular cooking lessons, to make sure the students can actually pass as, at the least, competent cooks. From there, he moves on to teaching them how to mix various ingredients into the food, to produce non-fatal effects such as diarrhea or vomiting without any noticeable unusual taste. The final portion of the course is fatal poisoning, by method. Successful students can induce death that looks like choking, heart attack, or almost any natural means. The absolute top students are those that can tailor mass consumption meals to specific individuals: A soup that targets only the duchess, bread rolls that only asphyxiate the diplomat from the foreign country, wine that only burns the esophagus of the famously vain opera singer, etc."
Mordak Chainboot,Prison Infiltration and Breakout," Mordak is a worn, sickly-looking dwarf with a smoky-gray beard barely longer than a stubble. In his lectures, he has a tendency to wax on about his own claim to fame: infiltrating a supposedly inescepable dwarven prison and breaking out after assassinating his mark. Despite the occasional reminiscing, his lessons do cover all the aspects of assassinating an imprisoned mark, from techniques to learn the prison layout in preparation, to various ways of securing an unguarded moment with the mark to carry out the assassination."
Jiang of the Silent Afterlife,Professor of Making Sure Dead Men Tell No Tales," In a world where ghosts exist, it can be hard for assassins to maintain their anonymity when their victim's spirit can still point fingers. Jiang has mastered the arcane arts of keeping ghosts silent, often by destroying the ghost as soon as the spirit leaves the body or by destroying the spirit before the body dies. She honed her ghost-slaying talents under the tutelage of a temple to Pelor, and has learned arcane rites to hurry a soul into its proper afterlife, where it can't tell stories, in a temple to the Raven Queen. Her classes tend to be underfilled, as few respect the value of her lessons until a paranormal investigation begins, and the spirit is at large."
Rylni of Grayshear,"Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs, teaches Scrying Ia"," This beady eyed gnome wears a light gray robe that contour her body just enough to reveal a gaunt figure unfit for strenuous work, unlike others at the academy. She has an oily and freckled face which both accentuate a scar that runs from her jaw line to her right cheek bone. Often mistaken for a student, Rylni distinguishes herself through her unforgettably explosive temper when she's outspoken. Rylni has the difficult task of performing fact checks on instructors who applied to the academy. Students taking her class learn elementary applications of the scrying orb, amongst other divination tricks."
Therian the Flame,Making it look like an accident," Seen as a joke by the other teachers LoneStar is, nonetheless, One of the most well known assassins ever. LoneStar's reputation exceeds his actual success rate by many levels, however. LoneStar teaches that one must take pride in their work, and everyone should know who killed the mark. Studebts practice boisterous monologues while hanging from rafters, taunting their target while it summons its guards, and develop their own flamboyant ""signature technique"" with its own equally edgy name.   Therian is a middle aged man, brown hair and bronze skin. He only wears a pair of white baggy clith pants, and his scimitar strapped to his waist. Therians class teaches students how to best utilize poor building techniques, such as weak foundations, or wood structural beams, to literally ""bring the house down"" on their target. Graduates of this class go on to become Expert serial arsonists and impromptu demolitions crews, as well as being highly sought after sappers in times of war."
Lokeris Dark (the third),Justification," A silver-tongued Tiefling fellow, always dressed impecably in the finest clothes, elven in style of course. His manners, always impecable, are totally disarming, charming even the most savage of beasts. His wit sharper than the finest blades the forgotten realms could offer. And there's the rub. You see, learning to kill subtly is one thing, learning to give a reason to kill is another. Under Lokeris' tutelage, students will learn how find their target's weak spot, whether it be cards, dice, or just their honour, and exploit it, needle at it until the target attacks. Remember, it isn't murder if it's self defense."
Matron Sarah,Common folk manipulation and political subterfuge," Matron Sarah is an elderly human, previously married to a farmer before he and her children were murdered by soldiers of his lord. She has a kind smile and kinder eyes, and teaches the better off students how to fraternize with peasants and urchins. This is a unique brand of assassination she teaches; turning once loyal subjects against their leaders, typically through violent revolution. Despite this facade, she cares little for the well being of the people, only taking pleasure in the upsetting of power balances and political instability that follows. The loss of her family broke her, and she sought vengeance by making a pact with a particularly capricious fey in exchange for the power to rein chaos on the material plane."
Daven of Crowbridge,does," Jethro Eckhardt is a lean, bespectacled, scholarly looking sort, often dressed in doctor's robes and accompanied by his distinctly humanoid Clay Golem, D4. Together they teach the principles of where to hit a target where it hurts most, and just how to do it, with Jethro covering the theoretical side of things and D4 acting as a living training dummy of sorts for practical demonstrations. A cheerful man who enjoys his work, Jethro has developed quite the bond with his classroom assistant, and has taken to referring to D4 as 'David', after the phonetic spelling of his College asset ID. It's this knowledge of preventative maintenance he tries to pass on through his course- ""Take care of your tools, young lot- and they'll take lives in return!"""
Bob,Erasing," Bob is quiet and unassuming. You might have seen him, but your eyes probably just passed over him. He's about average height, and his hair is shortish, or maybe longer? But anyway, Bob gets rid of people. Very important people. Assassinating someone important is hard. Not the part with the dagger and the muffled scream and the look in their eyes as they come to grips with the fact that this is their last moment on the material plane. That part is easy. It's the part after, where the clerics come in and make a big show of speaking with his corpse, and the divination wizards come, all eager to curry favor with whatever poor bastard now has to sit his arse on the throne. Now there are people looking for you, and you're living out your life in a lead-lined room in some backwater safehouse. Bob doesn't teach you to assassinate people, like the others. He teaches you how to erase someone. Come dawn, no one will even wonder who used to eat the bacon and eggs the cooks are busy making or whether someone sleeps in that big bed. They'll just be gone, and you won't even have to hide, because no one is looking for you."
"Victor ""Jigsaw"" Moreau",Remote detonation," A human in his late 50's, hunched, twitching and covered in scars thanks to a few too many close encounters with his own creations. Victor has a soft Germanic accent and a simple rule when it comes to assassination: it doesn't matter how loud you are if you're not in the room when it happens. 'Listen vell, ladies and gentellmen. Ven ze general, king, queen or target of choice sits on zis cushion, ze pressure of ze bum on ze chair breaks ze sugarglass in between ze two vials, allowing ze reagents to mix. Vonce zat happens, ze fireball should consume everyzing in a twenty-foot radius, so I vould advise making a note of ze seating plan."""
"William ""The Raven"" Finley",Interrogation Resistance," A calm old wood elf with dark brown hair, dull green skin, and hazel eyes, Silaneth sometimes spends an entire class with her nose in a book and her back turned to the students. The next day, they all receive marks. No one is quite sure for what. Some students leave in the middle of class and get a perfect score, others a failing grade for the same stunt. The joke around the academy is that it's a course in patience, not in stealth. Indeed, Sila often admonishes her students for excess haste. ""If you don't know more about your mark's routine than their own family when you go in for the kill, you are making a dangerous mistake. You can learn how to clean up the murder scene from Remmings, but if the mark's head of security walks in on you because you don't know his schedule, you've got a bigger problem on your hands."" Although she does teach various techniques in stealth and long distance tracking, the most useful part of her class is the weekly assignment to each student: to follow another professor in the academy, learn as much about their life as they can, and to not get caught. By the end of the course, the best students are more than capable of avoiding detection while tailing even an experienced mark. On the first day of the class, William scans the room with his deep, black eyes. Later, every student swears that his piercing gaze lingered on them just a little longer than everyone else. Everyone admits that when William looks at you, it feels like he can see directly into your soul. He was a human soldier in a special operations unit reporting directly to the highest officers in the military. A natural born leader, he did not have any profound or unique skills save that of his magnetic charisma and unyielding will. His class is well known to be grueling and unforgiving. There are no marks, only a pass or fail. Those who have passed the class, are known around the academy and either widely respected or else feared. He begins his first lecture with this, ""Most of you will fail. If you have a shred of doubt in your ability to pass this class, quit now. Nine percent. That's how many of you I can expect to pass this course. Just looking around the room I can already tell which ones of you will quit within the first week."" He starts pointing at the students and calling them out by name. He makes an effort to learn the names of every person in his course before they start so he can verbally abuse them from the first day. Very quickly, the students realize that during his class, he can be abusive and cruel, but is kind and friendly when not in class. He was a POW of the Drow for over a decade and sometimes recounts the sickening torture they utilized to try to get him to talk. He likes to lead groups on hikes, go camping, and tell war stories around the fire when he is not teaching. During one week of classes, towards the end of the course, students must go through hell week. This is a week of no sleep, no food, no rest. They are tortured, they are poisoned, they are bewitched. Every possible things is done to get them to give up. All they have to do is say they're done and all the pain stops. They are given a warm delicious meal in front of their peers who are still struggling. Those who don't give up, have almost passed the course. They have one final exam: to not give up a piece of information to the students of Dareth ""Feelgood"" Woren through a day of torture. Selected Quotes: ""Your mind is your most powerful weapon and your biggest weakness. When I lived with the Monks in the mountains of Harkonell, I learned to strengthen my mind. Your assignment, from this day to the end of this course, is to meditate while in pain. Try for an hour a day. I have a list of sufficient ways to cause pain posted on my office door."" ""Always remember, if you're being tortured for information, that is the only thing keeping you alive. Revealing it will result in certain death. We strengthen the mind and the will because when they are weak, death will seem like a welcome reprieve."" ""The most powerful torture is psychological. They will tell you they're torturing your family. They will show you what may or may not be illusions of your family being tortured. They will force you to ingest poisons that cause you to forget who you are. Sometimes they will offer you something enticing instead. They might offer you riches, immunity, protection, freedom. These are all techniques to get you to break. Do not fall for them."""
Vulpis Dreamwine,Truth And Truth-Seeking," A sallow elf with sunken, always-wide eyes that hint at an untenable sleeplessness. Vulpis has a drunken gait, relaxed charm, and a penchant for purple in his shoddy patchwork outfit. ""Get comfortable. Sometimes what you seek is just a friendly conversation away."" When he's not telling stories about epic triumphs and adventures-gone-wrong, he casually chats with his students about their past, their aspirations, which classes they're taking with which professors. A Nat 20 Insight roll on one of his stories will reveal that some part of it is dishonest. On the last day of class, each student awakens to find something precious has been stolen from them. The classroom is abandoned and locked. If investigated, the school has no records of a Vulpis on staff or a ""Truth And Truth-Seeking"" class."
Alstair Horngrave,"Above and Below, or How to Use Infrastructure"," Alstair is not usually known for his manners or his appearance, however he is known for his entrances. At the beginning of each term and before any practical examinations, he makes a point of entering the room from somewhere other than the door, once even rising from the ashes in the nearby fireplace. His course mainly revolves around using sewers, rooftops, and crowded streets to disappear or approach your target unseen, taught through theory and anecdotes from his days as an urchin. On rare occasions, he'll have some of his colleagues play the role of a student as a test, blending in with their classmates for weeks at a time until that first test is deemed to be concluded. The more notable of his lessons are held outside the classroom, teaching students through real life experience in controlled environments."
"John Graves, Insurance Adjuster",Chaos Based Magical Assassination," John Graves, Insurance Adjuster, is a pillar of the community, often found helping the local priests, donating food to the poor, and helping people recover from horrific accidents that he often causes. The name, John Graves, Insurance Adjuster, is a legacy title, passed down to the highest ranked assassin in the guild (often with several ""John Graves"" active at a single time period, working independently). Each Graves acts slightly differently; however, they each have two things in common. They run a ""respectable"" business, often insurance, but another similar profession works too, such as pharmacist or banker, and Graves has made a deal with some sort of Chaos God or Great Old One, which he sells the souls of those whom sign his contracts to the chaotic one, whom eventually kills them in a chaotic accident and feeds upon the chaos surrounding their untimely death. (Chaos loves collateral damage, but the only person whom ever dies as a result of these accidents is the victim, no matter how much destruction of property or others whom are injured in the process.) Grave's weapon of choice for his assassinations is based upon a misleading contract which binds the souls of those he insures to be eventually killed in horrific accidents. Graves is able to prevent an insurance contract from causing an accidental death by burning the contract prior to the death of the signor, or instantly ""activate"" the contract (and cause the accidental death to occur before the next New Moon), by signing and executing the contract in his own blood. He trains new assassins by teaching them actuarial tables, and in all ways making them a perfect ""drone"" within his business. All initiates also sign a contract upon joining the Guild. Once an initiate has proven a perfect ""Insurance Adjuster"" or ""Bank Teller"" or otherwise, they are inducted into the secret society and given the option to become a new John Graves. If the initiate declines, the Chaos God eats the initiates soul. It is unclear how Graves monetizes his assassinations, and each Graves has independent motivations sometimes at odds with other Graves. One common tactic is to gain as many insurance contracts with high ranking members of society as he can infiltrate, and then ""selling"" the death to his target's enemies prior to their death."
"Haber ""Gasman"" Devronich","Poisons, potions and chemistry"," Lastman, as he is most commonly referred to, is a generally unremarkable human, and comes to each class with a fresh costume, set of mannerisms and name. He never tells new students this, and one of the earliest 'grades' given is how long it takes to figure out that all the teachers they've had are the same person. A tall, bulky half-orc, Shaav wears armor almost constantly, and will challenge individual students to duels if they slight him. He is surprisingly eloquent, and knows almost every book of sword theory front and back. He has never actually worked as an assassin, but quickly teaches his students that no fight will ever be between them and a similarly-sized individual. A tall, imposing elf, Devronich is covered in centuries of burns, scars and boils, and always wears an asbestos hazard suit for protection while in class, and more than once he has accidentally incapacitated his entire class. He constantly coughs and giggles to himself, and those who are in his classes rarely stay for more than a semester, and few have survived more than two."
Kethan Quentith,Applied Anatomy," A scholarly Drow man with round glasses and tousled white hair, generally absent minded and gregarious but keenly focused when it comes to surgeries, dissections, and other less reputable applications of his craft (torture foremost amongst them). He left the Underdark not because of some innate goodness but because he wanted to work on greater varieties of species than could be found below the surface. Students under him learn how the bodies of most common races are put together and, consequently, how to take them apart in excruciating or efficient ways"
The silent council,stealth and distraction," A tribe of feral kenku who use their mimicry and movements to teach their pupils the art of moving silently, knowing when to speak and not, causing distractions, and finding the opportune time to strike. They are highly intelligent but seem to care not for material things beyond their robes and daggers, though they do accept offerings of food in exchange for a chance to be taught a lesson in their art. The selection methods of the council are unknown. Some say they have the ability to shape change into monstrous forms of feather and shadow - known silent council students will not speak of this."
"Supremely Eminent Hobgoblin Cancer-Kill Educator VI, Whose Wisdom Mustn't Be Questioned",Hobgob Campus V: The Very Best Campus on the Planet or in the Sky if the Sky Had Campuses," This otherwise unblemished, jovial hobgoblin is stooped under the weight of an eyewateringly disgusting hump on his back that pulses in the middle of class. If he catches you staring he pulls his robe a little to show you more. He's very proud of his hump. He extracts all his best diseases from it. SEHC-KE4WWMBQ teaches the uniquely hobgoblinoid assassination tool of natural causes. Hobgoblins mercilessly execute any who use the sacred arts of battle to kill dishonorably. And since the only acceptable ways for a hobgoblin to die are in battle or of disease, hobgob assassins need to get creative. And they don't use poison. This isn't poison and if you suggest it is to SEHC-KE4WWMBQ he will have you thrown out of his class immediately. This is natural causes. In SEHC-KE4WWMBQ's putrid study hall you will learn about Slough Rot, the Masonry-disease of the Gibbering Mouther, and how to spread it from floor to man. You will be taught how to culture the Love-cancer, which metastasizes in your nose and spreads by kiss. You will learn the 50 ways to kill a man by leaving a moldy piece of toast under his sink. You will, Hobgob willing, grow your own garden of throwing viruses, whose protein capsids grow so long and sharp that they can be used as daggers. Due to a quirk in the hobgoblin code that last one still technically counts as kosher."
Val Raveneyes,Political and disguises," A freshly groomed bearded human man. Wearing noble's clothing. Mastermind Rogue and Warlock levels a Raven sits on his shoulder when he rests. He is extremely blunt and prides himself on efficiency. Silver tongued through years of being a fence in a thieves guild, he has surpassed his teachers. Able to craft any disguise in hours, he has even disguised others to appear as him while he sat in on his own class to show how effective it is. ""Remember that saying? Keep your friends close and your enemies closer?"" ""Disguise yourself and your enemies think you friend, making it all the easier. Poison and a sharp blade can do the rest."" ""Blue blood is as good as red blood. Ribs 5 and 6, dagger goes between those for best results."""
Phalin Ghandos,Information with Style," This happy-go-lucky half-elf plays everywhere, palaces, inns, taverns, and even town squares. While he's laughing with nobles, he's bedding the help. All the while gathering information for weak spots either in security or in court. Trained at the College of Swords, Phalin is as deadly with a blade as is his wit. Oh and to pass his class you've got to gain information he doesn't already have."
Sergeant Cutler,Military Etiquette," A grizzled human male, Cutler looks out of place in his worn mail shirt among the black-clad faculty. A veteran of many foreign militaries, militias, mercenaries, posses, gangs, city watches and similarly regimented organizations, Cutler's lessons can let any soft-handed assassin-to-be swagger into a barracks without a second glance from its occupants. A few brave souls refer to him behind his back as ""The Seamstress"" for his talent at repairing and imitating any uniform, a lesson he teaches under the moniker of ""Advanced Military Infiltration."""
Vrok Grathul,Assassination for Haruspicy," Vrok is an elderly orc with bone piercings across his face and arms. He speaks slowly and uses few words, but is not unintelligent. He teaches a method of knifework that assassinates the target but preserves the entrails in the best possible state for divination. He is disliked but acknowledged by other teachers due to his skill and long experience."
Elden Vathir,Post-Capture Diplomacy," Elden is a broad-faced half-elf with a silver tongue. He is curiously still while talking; always active when not. He deals with what can be done in the event an assassin is captured - bribery, tricking guards, and other diplomatic subjects."
Alexandros Cordini,Enhanced calisthenics," ""Nobody can get the job done if the body cannot follow the mind."" This bald middle aged man doesn't like to brag about his kill score, or talk about it at all, but what he does brag about is his stamina and how good legs will bring your ass to places. He's a firm believer that 20 push-ups for each mistake and misstep will bring your mind where it needs to be, and that proper full body workout can forge the most lethal weapon in any assassin's arsenal: one's own body."
Dargos Blackthumb,Abduction & Extraction,"  This strangely quiet dwarf js good at not being seen and better at not letting a good kill go to waste. He teaches a type of 'business' where the actual assassination is only a mere step to a final goal, or sometimes isn't even performed until after the job is already done. Sometimes less than savory folk has less than savory needs for bodies. Breathing or otherwise. A gang may need a corpse to serve as a body double, a rich vampire may want a meal and doesn't feel like hunting it themselves, or a demonic cult may need specific body parts for their dark rituals. Whether the client will pay on delivery of a corpse, a living captive, or a just pint of blood, it doesnt make much difference. The victim dies sooner or later, and you'll learn to be paid either way."
Hattori Masanari,Manipulation and deceit," The idle chatter filling the room quickly turns into quiet whispers as the door opens, and a skinny man enters. He continued towards the desk, his fine clothes formed a snug fit over his slender body, barely wrinkling at all as he moved. The most striking thing however were his unusually sharp features, aquiline nose, combed back hair, and seeming use of dark makeup to enhance the already prominent amber eyes, leaving him looking about as hawk-like as human can be, and a less wise man might even mistake him for a hengeyokai of that variety. There had been less wise men, but nobody believed them, after all they had all shown to be fools, scoundrels or both. The first one ended up on the streets after utterly ruining his merchant family's legacy. The second was nothing but a lowly thief and hung for his crimes. The third, he died to his brothers rapier, a befitting end for seducing the poor brothers wife. He had taken no pleasure in their deaths, why would he? He wasn't a monster, no; but seeing the hope in their eyes fade and be replaced with panic as their whole world collapsed around them, that, that was what made him feel alive, so there he stood in front of the class ready to pass on his skills to a new generation, his mouth forming a small smile as he spoke in the voice of someone knowing they own the world, ""Class is now in session""."
Lady Vivica Haverly,Weddings and Wagers," A thin, brunette woman of middling years. Impeccably dressed to the highest of society’s standards, just conservative enough but with a coquettish smile that’s lured in more than a few marks. Whilst she is all charm and graces when on a job, as a teacher she is exacting and methodical. She teaches her students how to goad their marks into their own downfalls, with weddings and wagers being her forte. Where time and planning is available, she can take a mark and have them under her thumb within a short few months; Marriage proposal to the aisle in under 6. Before the year is out she is a tragic widow with a dazed look in her eyes and many people falling over themselves to console her until she disappears to ‘recover’. Where she is short on time she has been known to use pride and folly to her advantage, convincing the unsuspecting into ill-advised bets that lead to their demise. Whether it’s to protect her honour, to impress her, or simply her gentle coaxing into a bad decision already waiting to happen, Lady Haverly has seen many a mark fall to their death on the duelling crowd, attempting impossible feats or simply falling into debt so heavy that taking their own lives seems the sensible option. Lady Vivica lives by the principle of why get your hands dirty if they’ll do it themselves for you?"
are,Planning and information gathering," Tall and laid back, the human seems to have a natural charm to him. Able to make anyone smile, however his eyes pierce through you, which leads way to a different, aggressive personality. Elias teaches the importance of detail. Explaining how every detail must be fully observed, and fully absorbed, the smallest piece of the puzzle can save your hide. ""Don't write anything down, commit it to memory, because sometimes you wont have time. Plus, you can lose your writing, which leads me to my next point. Prepare for every plan you make, to fail. This is why you need to learn to improvise."" He seems to observe everything for a few seconds longer than most, and has a mostly clear memory of everything within the past 3 days. ""The key to a clean kill is a solid understanding of the cage the animal has restricted itself to."""
Forlom Zuckus,Magical Recon," A tall, shapely human, Ms. Underbust is an expert in the arts of disguise, seduction, and blackmail. Her students learn to gain a mark's trust, then discover (or create) incriminating evidence. Her classes cover social customs and taboos, the practice of changing your appearance to suit your needs, and how to use information (whether it be true or not) as leverage. A successful student of her's will be able to turn an otherwise upstanding citizen into their own unwilling lackey or a social pariah fit only to be run out of town. She also insists on all of her students drinking heavily during her classes to build up their tolerance, ""You should always be prepared to drink your mark under the table.""   Lockjaw is a no-nonsense goblin with a knack for remembering every face she sees. An accomplished networker and fence, she is as dangerous at a negotiating table as she is with a blade. Most any person is to have some personal items on them, usually in the form of jewelry, magical items, or heirlooms. While in some cases it is important to leave these identifying items on a corpse, you are more likely to live to see your next contract if the authorities have to ask who is dead before they can as why they are dead. You could destroy these items, but that would be a shameful waste. Better to sell them to someone who understands the importance of discretion. Prof. O'Mally is a fence first and an assassin second. Her class is devoted to safely and secretly selling the goods of the recently deceased. She also teaches courses in negotiating contracts and sizing up potential employers to determine who is and is not safe to work with.   A tall, pale human who has clearly spent too much time in dark places, Forlom clearly emphasizes magical acumen first, meditation second, and hygiene last. Prof. Zuckus is a master of divination. His classes focus on learning everything you need to know about a target before you get within a days journey of them. He will set up traps days in advance, knowing exactly where and when his mark will be vulnerable. Graduates of his plan their strike days in advance, set their traps, and leave with enough time to be miles away before the hit takes place. There is no need to witness the kill in person when you can witness it magically."
"Lak ""lucky"" Lu","The butterfly's wings. A form of assassination that exploits chaos theory. Like using an ice cube to trip a pedestrian into a horse sending it on a stampede that causes your hemophiliac target to break their wine glass in shock, cutting themselves and having a slow and painful death.", Lucky Lu is a fat halfing that claims to be responsible for 70 high profile accidental deaths. He claims his skill is due to his 7 toes on each foot. It wasn't until he wasn't threatened by a thug with a knife and the thug was killed by choking on a pea that anyone believed him. He claims he is waiting for someone adequately accident prone to pass his methods down to.
Ephut-Kai,Headmaster," Ephut-Kai is a bald man with bronze skin and scars running the length of his arms. Ephut-Kai is a silent, intense man who never says more than he has to. Most students are thankful of his silence, because Ephut-Kai has never said anything that wasn't at least mildly threatening or unsettling. Ephut-Kai runs the Academy, a mountain monastery which trains monks in the art of murder. The students are sold at incredibly high prices, and they never fail. Ephut-Kai was once a student, until the former headmaster murdered his twin-brother for insubordination. Then Ephut-Kai drown the former headmaster in a pool of lava. Since then, the Academy has been running smoothly and silently, just like Ephut-Kai likes."
John Tark,The Everyday Man," ""If you want to know everything about anything, you need to start from the bottom. Students of my class will learn to infiltrate the deepest dungeon, scale the tallest towers, and be invited into the most prestigious of throne rooms and balls."" ""The unkempt cleaner, the grumbling plumber, the amiable server. These are the roles you will wear in my class."""
Wymern Ravel,Public Assassination," ""No, no. Not like that!"" he yelled as a student detonated another Fireball. His scaly hands waved wildly, as chaotic as the commotion he caused when he performed one of his spectacles. ""You must make it bigger, brighter! A show so spectacular you can just fade into the crowd!"" ""Easy for you to say! You're a--"" complained a student. A fireball immediately blew up in his face, yet leaving him unharmed. Despite being only a human, Wymern had all the temper of a red dragon."
Tilo Otto,Character Assassination and Emotional Manipulation," A silent and solemn tiefling, this pale pink-skinned assassin is neither wiry nor bulky in build. Mr. Otto, as he prefers to be addressed by his peers, wears a simple frock coat that matches his night black horns pulled close to his slicked back hair. His movements are slow and deliberate, much like his clearly enunciated manner of speaking. Mr. Otto chooses his students based not only on their criminal merit, but also their calculating and entrepreneurial goals. Students are expected to strip away their own emotions, because Mr. Otto's particular brand of character assassination requires lack of pity or empathy. Many of Tilo Otto's targets are driven to suicide after a long and drawn out loss of sanity. Through use of illusory manipulation, Mr. Otto teaches students to implant nightmares and hallucinations in the target. In addition to the practical application of illusory magic, Mr. Otto teaches his students the art of surveillance and creating a profile of their targets in an effort to better torment them."
Brande 'The Voice' Preznal,Baiting and Distraction," Brande is a human built like a string but strung in a bow. What he lacks in physical ability he's made up for in taking hits and drawing crowds. ""Sometimes a job requires a distraction. Maybe the guards need a fight to break out and draw a guard. Maybe you're not suited for offing some bloat but you're still here to help. Or maybe you drew the short straw. One day or another you won't be the man drawing the targets blood. I'll be teaching you the ways of getting the attention of the right people to leave the opening for your mate to take the kill. First things first, someone show me your punch."""
Kor Chizael,"Philosophy and Ethics, and once a cleric of Bhaal"," A gaunt human with sunken eyes and wrinkled, waxy skin, Kor is a follower of Bhaal, a cult leader and professor of ethics. He appears to have burn scars on the right side of his face, or possibly some sort of disease of deterioration, possibly magical in origin. He constantly wears a deep scowl, and his emotions range from anger to apathy and nothing in-between. ""Life is a spider web that we are trapped in, slowly starving, awaiting the spider's fangs and final embrace and sweet release. To spill the artery of another is an act of mercy - and it is our duty."""
Langston Mandelig,adjusts his hair and starts to pace," A tall, lanky half elf in a rough coveralls. He is pale with unkept dark hair, wire rimmed spectacles and a distracted manner. He speaks quickly with a slightly high pitched voice and a tendency to go off on rambling esoteric tangents. Vain and sesquipedalian, he has little time and less interest in those who are beneath him intellectually. Quick to anger and defensive when challenged, he nonetheless is a skilled instructor for competent students. He specializes in obscure and undetectable poisons and deadly agents. Example lecture: ""Hello class"" ""Today we are going to be discussing the use of hormonally triggered toxins. Those of you who bothered to attend our last lab section... ""Will recall the value of decoupling cause and effect in a discrete assassination. A quality investigator will firstly attempt to link the motive, opportunity and action to the effect. The effect of course is the inhumation of the relevant target. By decoupling the apparent cause and effect we can disguise our connection, hence the value of asymptomatic pathological agents that are triggered by means at a far remove from our own actions. ""The classice example is what is crudely known as the ""Lecher's trap"" which you will find an in depth discussion of in Chapter 6 of Mironnel Krenski's text ""Obscure toxicological agents and Other Discrete Political Agents"" available at the university library. This is a sample of purpose bred sporulated Entamoeba histolytica. It is an anaerobic parasitic that may infect any known humanoid. This particular strain has been bred to enter the vascular tissue of any higher vertebrate. After amebiatic introduction, it takes 1-2 days to colonize and passively wait for the proper hormonal trigger. It may persist in its vegetative metabolic condition for at least 2 years. ""This is the extract of Hyoscyamus of the genus Solanaceae. When administered to a person results in a increased production of glucocorticoids over for approximately a week. ""Weren't you listening?!?! This vial is harmless!!! Our whole purpose is carrying two discrete agents that can trigger a deadly effect!!!!!"" ""The increased production of glucocorticoids can be noted in the affected creatures saliva and other mucosal secretions!!!! This glucocorticoid will trigger the amoebic agent and result in the rapid death secondary to uncontrolled bleeding over the course of 2-3 days approximately 1 week after the combination of these agents! Meaning we can infect a target and later place the trigger in a person who will shortly have intimate contact with our target allowing us sufficient time to absent ourselves and introduce reasonable doubt into the actual moment of poisoning!"""
Velkan Artaner,Camoflauge," Velkan is a dark elf who has an eye for detail. He is very clean and presentable during lectures, and seemingly despises unnecessary dirt and grime. Some who only have a passing knowledge of him may even classify him as a ""neat freak."" Despite being a dark elf, Velkan appears to be one of the most civilized, well-spoken, and hygienic people one could know. However, during practical training exercises, Velkan adopts an entirely new personality. He becomes manic and highly elusive, covering himself in dirt, mud, foliage, and any miscellaneous objects to assist him in blending in to his surroundings. His dark skin serves as a natural aid when stalking in the shadows and, in combination with his silent movements, becomes almost impossible to locate when he wishes to remain hidden. Students and faculty report Velkan sometimes ""appearing out of thin air, as if coming out of an invisibility spell."" He will frequently stalk students and staff alike when he's in one of his moods. There are rumors that he startled the head apothecary by perfectly disguising as the intricate wallpaper that covered the head apothecary's study. After announcing his presence and starting a conversation with the apothecary, Velkan reportedly disappeared back into the wallpaper mid-sentence as soon as the Head Apothecary turned his back to him."
Alana Lowe,Non-magic Subterfuge and Manipulation," The instructor known for having one of the most difficult classes to pass, Alana takes the phrase ""Know thy enemy"" and has turned it into ""Mold thy enemy."" Alana is a human woman who, while she naturally looks humble and homely, is known for being beautifully seductive if it is what the job requires. Her class focuses on pulling the strings from behind the scenes. The best jobs are ones you can finish without ever having to divulge a name. Subtle suggestion, if implemented properly, is enough to control the mind of anyone without magic and, most importantly, without them knowing. You don't have to kill anyone if you can convince someone else to do it for you, and make them think it was their idea in the first place. Her classes are notoriously difficult because she employs her own lessons against her students. Frequently turning students against each other or starting feuds and fights between friends, Alana's students must recognize and resist her silent influence in order to succeed."
"Kerlead ""Big-Splash"" Ironleg",Assasinations involving Heavy Weapons and Explosives," At first sight, this stout dwarf, with wild brown eyes, a short, scruffy beard the color of rust, and clad in a too-large chainmail hauberk that drags and rattles across the floor behind him, appears to be anything but stealthy. That first impression would be correct. Kerlead is loud, bombastic, brazen, and can take out an entire guard barracks with a single spark. Kerlead's specialty lies in explosives and artillery, but is highly knowledgeable about most other heavy weapons. When stealth is not a feasible option, the constantly drunken dwarf's ideology is to ""level the playing field."" Literally. With high explosives. His nickname, ""Big-Splash"", actually has more than one meaning. While he is highly efficient with area-of-effect weaponry, he is also infamous with the other instructors for spilling full mugs of beer when he is drinking, and he drinks often without regard for who is around him as well as without fear of reprisal for showing up to lecture, intoxicated, with full mugs in each hand. During his class, students will learn mostly technical information about various explosives, artillery pieces, fuses, and trigger mechanisms. Information includes kill radius of explosives, simple ballistic maths, ammunition types and uses for artillery pieces, and speeds at which different fuses burn in different weather conditions. The culminating event of the class is to make and implement their own chain-explosive devices, which must consist of at least 5 individual bombs linked together and all detonated via a single slow-burning fuse."
Kelvius Argent,"High Level Improvisation: What do to when Plan B, C and D all go down in flames"," Middle Aged Male Halfling, scruffy, scarred, and weathered. Often stands on tables. His favorite way to measure his students resourcefulness is to sabotage their efforts towards other classes vital assignments and see how they compensate. Week 1 is about the tools that make any job easy, then he forbids those for the term across the board for his students. Often hated for driving students to tears, madness or embarrassment in their most difficult terms. After he feels he's thrown enough wrenches in any given classes work, his actions will eventually teach the intended lesson, but this can be as short or as long as the students make it. They just have to keep moving forward by any means. The only true failure is to give up."
Sander Thon,Convincing your Target to assassinate themselves.," Sander Thon is a gremlin of a person. At his full height he might stand a good 5'5"", but his characteristic slouch keeps him just under 5'. His skin is sallow and dotted with liver spots, and one eye drifts lazily about it's socket. The trick, he tells all of his students, is to convince your Target there is nothing left to live for. It starts, funnily enough, by making your Target very happy using a variety of tinctures and potions brewed specifically to lift the spirits. After a week or two of these raised spirits, life begins to take a turn for the worse for our Target. As you cut off their supply of joy, a beloved pet may die, a confidant may betray them, they may be mocked in the public eye, and they will find themselves isolated. A potion to dull the senses, but not the mind will make the quiet comforts of the Target's life do anything but. If done properly, a Target will take their own life within a matter of weeks, but if not, don't be afraid to give them a little push off a high building. As long as there is no evidence of foul play, most people will put the pieces together without a second thought."
Hearken Ambrose,Power Dichotomy," Hearken is a human male of considerable stamina and charisma; his jokes are as legendary as his exploits. He once ran with an assassin's guild responsible for dethroning a king. He teaches courses on the importance of power--both in combat and in life. His most ardent belief is that no two different powers are equal and teaches his pupils to fight against unfair odds--how to fight multiple opponents at once, how to assess weakness of character or of body, how to defeat a superior opponent, et cetera. He is a master of the improvised weapon and the most famous tale of his assassinations involves Heaken killing a man with an urn full of his own grandmother's ashes."
Sylux (the Swift),Masking and Unmasking," Sylux is short for an elf, though his legacy makes up for his stature. He is paranoid about being spied upon via magic and has worn various masks for most of his adult life. He teaches courses in types of masks from a thematic standpoint--physical masks are certainly one part, but, he applies the theory to shadows, illusions, his feint-heavy fighting style, even written correspondance. He teaches that everyone wears some type of mask; the trick is figuring out what lies beneath. Hearken for instance, Sylux posits, is actually a dog in a man's mask--""how else is one to explain the flaccid-armed technique Hearken uses? He looks like a dog bounding across a yard with a stick."""
Alrick Wiljin,Improvised weaponry," A gnome with a permanent grin on his pale face. Alrick is always busy and inseperable from his pet otter 'Lutrin'. He specializes and teaches the creation of weapons out of everyday objects and nature. He is best known for his branch-blowpipe and darts, which he can forge in under 10 minutes out of the branch of a black gum tree without tools. One of his more elaborate pieces is a crossbow made out of 8 pieces of silverware and a single cloth. Don't let the quirkiness of the weapons distract you, because most of them are lethal. ""Everything is a weapon if you want it to"" Taking his class can seem quite dangerous as he likes to test new-made weapons on homemade armour. Despite frequent accidents with experimental weapons neither Alrick nor his students suffered any deadly injuries in the 13 years he's teaching the course."
Quarn son of Nagus,Economics," This rock gnome is always dressed in the finest suits. His most disgusting features are his large ears. He has a meticulous set of 285 rules for any and all purchases or business deals. He views all interactions as transactions. Tends to caress the tops of his ears when happy. Class is taught in three parts. First, in a classroom, where he will lecture about how a good grasp of economy can be as useful as any poison. Then students are split into groups and made to run a tavern, each assigned a patron to learn about. Finally, the most promising students are sent on missions of an economic variety - which he gets a percentage of, of course. In his class you will learn how to acquire items needed for any mission. You will learn to bargain, trade, deal and swindle. Buy the loyalty of the targets' guards. Corner the market in their secret desires and force them to come to you. Once you have their trust, you ruin them. Take their house, income, servants and leave them with nothing. In the end, the target is no longer able to feed themselves reliably, let alone trouble whomever it was who hired you and you have established a profitable - and on paper - legal side business to supplement your income."
Vagabond Tarris,Suggestion and Persuasion," A jovial halfling, in every way a deliberate stereotype of the wandering minstrel, Tarris claims to have never drawn blood by her own hand. Instead, every kill to her name or that of her students has been the result of some reckless course of action, provoked or inspired by Tarris's words, with the aid of some of the more subtle charms and compulsions. ""Assassinations are inherently suspicious, but fools chasing fables into the desert wastes are inherently mockable."" Students of Tarris study ancient legends of lost gold, famous rivalries and their causes, various mind-altering drugs and poisons, and esoteric styles of magic that one could slip into a conversation without notice. She is notorious for her tendencies towards one-upsmanship, something she's aware of. She often claims she never graduates a student unless they can tell her a story she can't overtop."
Kardal Illuthamae,Mechanical Sabotage," A huge goliath, nearly eight feet tall and 400 lbs of muscle, Kardal passes just a bit too well as a humble mechanic. He speaks street slang with the accent of the poor and working class, but with a gentleness long ago bullied out of those who didn't tower over others the way he did as a child. Kardal's style is in the failure of mechanical components: wagon axles breaking down in the wilderness, ships breaking apart at sea, traps triggering when they shouldn't, etc. He is a very patient instructor, and he prefers the hands-on style of learning, helping his students make clocks, springload mechanisms, pressure switches, and all sorts of other mechanical toys. Aside from his famously mellow demeanor, however, he has one other trait students remember him for: an alarming tendency to forget just how much stronger he is than everyone else. Stories abound of him accidentally injuring students by casually handing them hundred pound wheels and mechanisms, or foisting tasks like holding up wagons to those who can't manage it."
Jorell Kazon,Unarmed and Improvised Combat," Jorell Kazon is an intensely humorless Aasimar man who by all appearances ran out of patience for his fellow man decades ago. He offers no lectures or practice; everything is sparring, and every mistake made is corrected by having the proper technique performed against the unfortunate pupil. The only reason he manages to keep any students among the living is because he is a skilled healer in his own right. "" Your body is the only weapon you have. All else is only borrowed. Borrow all you can, but master what you own."" His fighting style is very atypical as compared to the classical ideal of a martial artist. His ready stances are mostly poses that would not look out of place in polite conversation: clasped hands, folded arms, etc. He tends to open with throws, shoves, and two-handed strikes intended to deny opponents the footing they need to fight back, and continuing that momentum into the nearest wall or other environmental hazard."
Mali Kcarmb,Killing and the Con," Thin and elegant Mali's walk is more like a glide. He is in the corner of your eye unnoticed unless he needs you for something, like you've not sat a test and he needs you to sit it in his office. A relatively kind and friendly man, he makes everyone feel welcome. But thats the lesson he teaches, make everyone love you and they will never suspect you. Mali likes to tell the story of how he once killed a wealthy merchant in an alleyway, then stabbed himself in the side, called for help from the gaurds saying how he and his friend were attacked. Mali had spent 3 months making himself invaluable to the merchant and was left money by the merchant in his will with a note saying ""To the brother I never had."""
Granny Nightdale,Rumors and their manipulations," A Venerable elven lady, she looks disarming on her blue cardigan and simple silken robe. However, her vibrant green eyes are still sharp behind her thick glasses, there isn't much that escapes her; and her tongue is much sharper than most daggers. Her voice carries easily to get pupils, whether it is in the classroom or in the field, but her frquent coughs and ocasional slip to outdated slang make understanding her difficult. Sometimes when your target is too high profile to be able to dispose of it on the more classic methods, so it's just more expedient to, ahem, ""convince"" them that it's on their best interests to skip town, or to step down from their public position. Whether it is a blattant lie or an elegant knot of truths, Granny Nightdale has toppled Kings and Emperors by getting the right information to the wrong ears. (or the wrong information to the right ears) She cares about her students as much as a teacher can, and will happily spend some extra time with all those who ask her, but this doesn't make them immune to her tender mercies. Of anything, she tries harder to turn friends into foes, explaining that they should expect betrayal even from their most reused friends. However, she is not cruel, and those who manage to unravel her web, or even better, use it to further their own ends, receive a pair of enchanted earrings to boost their memory. It helps to keep their lies straight."
"Thurl deMarque ap Leistairre, esq.",Law," Thurl is not the sort of assassin one typically thinks of, all dark hoods and gleaming daggers. He is the type of assassin who walks in the front door, greeted by a nervous looking butler who sweats and smiles as he is seated with you, and then nods pleasantly and shares tea and anecdotes as you sign away your life and everything you hold dear. Thurl specializes in legal assassinations. He hunts his marks not through the streets at night, but through the courtrooms and temples of justice. Should you find yourself his target, the guards will be tipped off about every crime you have ever committed, the judges will be aware of every character foible you posses, and the executioner will be aware of what you did to his daughter. The hands of justice will turn against you. Or, if he cannot find sufficient evidence, you will find yourself in a string of profitable deals, quickly climbing he ladders of wealth and society until suddenly one deal goes sour, and a merchant believes you have cheated him. Once that happens, he tells his friends, end every contract is re-reviewed. They'll find that the ore you supplied was sub-par, the wine was vinegar and water, the coins you paid were clipped. In class, he shows his students not merely how to kill, but how to work the system, and turn their words into their weapons, killing with tongue and ink while the actual risk goes to the poor guardsman bringing you into trial."
Marcus Fletcher,Preparation and Planning," The first most common failing of assassins fresh out of college is a lack of foresight while performing a mission. Poison bottle cork get stuck, guard patrols are neglected, escape ropes are too short, the list goes on. The college deemed it necessary, therefore, to include a mandatory class to instill in students the basics of preparation and planning. Marcus Fletcher, having been the bottom of his class and having fought tooth and nail to his current status, learned the lessons he teaches the hardest way possible. Always check your equipment before proceeding. Always have a backup. Always have a way out. He is tough on his students, drilling them relentlessly and meticulously with his rules and refuses any compromise, for he knows that if he does not, he will have learned nothing in his entire career. Since the course became mandatory for students to study, the number of assassins who live beyond their first mission rose dramatically."
Archmage Douglas Wilhelm,Magical Applications in Assassinations," Sometimes, mages will pivot from their preferred line of study into the Assassin's College. Wilhelm is calm and collected, even while murdering a person. He teaches his students not only how to abuse their magical abilities in creative ways, but also teaches general magika useage and some specialized magika such as conjuration, manipulation and illusion. (He's not Archmage for nothing after all). The course encourages students to reflect on their magika, to observe its effects and use it for more than it's obvious usage. For example, one student learned to choke a target with her own wine by holding the fluid in her throat magically. Another student cast a fury spell on their target during a military inspection."
Kim Barth,Improvisation," While often looked down upon by many professionals, the ability to find solutions even when things go wrong is an useful skill nevertheless. Barth is excitable and takes a happy-go-lucky, if not completely flippant, attitude during her classes. She will often put her students into scenarios where they must use whatever tools around them to devise a plan within a set amount of time. They are graded on the time they take, the reliability of the plan, and how likely the student would die immediately after executing said plan. The course tends to attract jacks-of-all-trades and those who are mysteriously lucky."
Shajar al-Durr,Kidnapping and Ransom," A tall dark-skinned human female with regal bearing, Shajar al-Durr may seem like a genial teacher from those who haven't taken her class, but any graduate can tell you (potentially through tears) of her sharp and personal lessons. Having taken one king ransom in her past, Shajar al-Durr does not hesitate to take her student's loved ones for object lessons in class. Class description: The fine art of assassination is merely one tool of many to achieve your goals. Many would give their lives for a loved one. Kidnapping and ransom can give you a cover for political assassinations, or you can keep one of your successfully killed subjects seemingly alive for months, or, if you prefer a more manipulative approach, kidnap (take for treatment) a royal and act as their liaison while they are ""ill."""
Catherine Breshkovsky,Mundane Personas," Breshkovsky, a stout dwarf, exudes a matronly aura. Nicknamed ""The Babushka"", most students love her class. She is always saying that ""The best assassin is the one they least expect, and nobody even notices an old lady with a face like a wrinkled apple."" She has perfected her grandmotherly appearance and down-home appeal and encourages each assassin to find their ""mundane persona"" to extend into the world when being a polished assassin would stick out. She also recommends ways to hide your strength, for example, where with the Babushka you would see a rotund older dwarf woman bent with age, hauling some sticks, you do not process that her fat is actually entirely muscle, and her sticks are bristling with her swords. It is certainly jarring to see her demonstrations in class, where, in mere moments, she goes from hobbling about to a blurred whirlwind of blades and then back again."
Shagram Doon,Enticing the Masses and Guiding the Unguidable," His view: ""Why get your hands dirty if you can convince a crowd to do the work for you?"""
Rickert Oswald,Leaving a Mark," Rickert is a tan skinned human, wrinkles just starting to line his face and the color fading from his hair. This isn't uncommon with assassination instructors, as typically one doesn't become a teacher until they have retired. He teaches an art so often forgotten in a profession typically about covering up the messes they make, which is how to make an assassination look as grisly as possible. Clients who want their enemies to know they mean business seek him and his style out, as the body is found with marks of torture, or displayed in ways that invoke true horror. His most famous tale is a political assassination where he had managed to cook and prepare all the organs of his victim and lay them out at his estate for a dining party to find mere hours later. He enjoys telling this story as his class is eating lunch for the day, as he greatly enjoys the reactions. ""You don't need to make anyone suffer. As long as the remains make it look like they did, no one will even want to know the details."""
Gorg Aselif,From Sewers to Skylines: Blending in and getting out in all occasions," While there are many classes and ways to learn to get in and out of a kill, Gorg's class is one of the few that teaches you how to get from the sewer at noon, into the fancy ball before nightfall, and out the front gate a little past midnight while looking and smelling like you were invited. His tactics use previously learned material, such as moving through sewers and climbing buildings, and mixing in new methods such as stashing clothes and planting false evidence. The course also teaches other diversions, when to keep a low or high profile during an event, and how to properly judge the distance from a rooftop to the ground and tends to attract students that are less suited for an actual fight and more equipped to stir up a panic and leave. Gorg is a gnome with a varied past, supposedly raised by goblins and trained by noblemen, he teaches most lessons in the field, meaning in the sewers or on a roof, and often gets the class to go to royal balls, for free of course."
Dedon Greschmach,Tailing," Greschmach is a short, dark-haired half-elf who teaches how to follow a mark in cities, towns and ports. He teaches disguise, distraction and movement techniques so his students can follow anyone through any crowd. His upper-level courses also include crowd theory, and there are rumors that the riots in Sevendar last autumn were his doing..."
Maldova 'Quicart',advanced wet-work and murder scenery," Quicart was the name affectionately given to a young, Halfling, BnE and pickpocket artist with no father, and a whore of a mother. He was a prodogy, quickly surpassing long time felons and finding his niche as a reliable framing artist, and quick slit specialist. After half a lifetime murdering for money, he was recruited by your prestigious school, to teach and deal with any...liabilities. Seen as one of the more engaging teachers, Maldova entertains his classes with live demonstrations and games of find the teacher. He can always be seen picking at a pomegranate with any one of his ornate throwing knives, or charmingly whispering in any of the curvier students ears."
Sir Willem LaFortier,Last Resort Swordplay," A large but old human man, built like a buffalo, and with grey hair. A laboriously curated handlebar moustache exquisitely curled. He talks like a gentleman, acts like a gentleman, and expects great honour and decorum in his class. Looking for busywork after retirement, he is employed due to his skill at traditional swordplay - an assassin's final recourse."
"Blake ""Shadowblade"" Carn",Sleeping targets," Half-orc man, Blake moves like a cat, utterly silent, and has a penchant for surprising his students at innoportune times. Though in class he is deadly serious, outside he uses his skills to play playful and innocuous pranks on both students and teachers alike. His class focusses on dealing with situations where an assassin has to deal with sleeping foes, and ensuring constant stealth and awareness."
Freya Elardi,Information gathering," A high elf woman, Freya has flowing blonde hair, stunning good looks, eyes like an eagle, and a smug egotistical attitude. She teaches everything from spying to research to torture, in a varied yet harsh curriculum. Freya has spent hundreds of years perfecting her class, and brokes no failure from her students."
Lord Ashcrofte,Rumor Mongering," Lord Ashcrofte is a tall, thin man of somber demeanor with a knack for charm. Having spent the majority of his youth in various noble courts, he has developed the acquired taste for politics, with especial love for the power of whispers. Lord Ashcrofte will teach these skills to his hand-picked students for a price, a favor to be claimed at a time of his discretion. Lord Ashcrofte instructs individuals in the ways in which they can become a trusted confidant, an ear to whisper into, a shoulder to lean on, a mistress to the target - whatever it takes to get the information which is needed. After all, everyone has secrets which can be advantageous to the holder."
Quintius Auralea,In Plain Sight - The Fine Art and Etiquette of Honorable Murder," ""The way to a man's heart, they say, is through his stomach. But if you want to reach his brain, I recommend the eye socket."" The mechanism of the honor duel exists in nearly all cultures, and the daring assassin may bend it to his will to kill his target publicly, decisively, and (most importantly) legally. Quintius, once the Count of Imperia, is a master of this technique, which involves drawing the target into an honor duel through social maneuvering. And, of course, winning the duel. He presents himself as a squat little pudding of a human with a ruddy complexion and drooping eyes, which he later reveals is part of the game. ""The target must see you not as a predator, but as prey. Draw them in, then, like the viper, strike. The involvement of disguises, aliases, and poisons where necessary are recommended, and the establishment of a reputation is the death of this art."""
Janus of Undertown,Contacts and Conspirators," Once a member of the Thieves Guild (or two, or three), Janus began applying his talent for gathering and organizing people to the cause of murder only a few years ago. Strangely, the course of study is taught by a different person each day, reading from a long scroll. ""The greatest assassin,"" Janus writes, ""are never seen and never heard. This might imply stealth, but simple absence can suffice."" The class describes establishing and running relationships with a variety of agent types, including fanatics, patsies, hirelings, and even true partners."
PLEASE ADHERE TO THE FORMAT,The History of the Nobles," Welcome to the 1st event of the Academia Month: 10k Professors. For this event, let's brainstorming up 10k NPCs who are all professors. This collective list can include professors of any discipline! This list can then become a tool for any DM who needs a professor to just reach into and pull a fun one out. Perhaps, this will even inspire some interesting campaign ideas. There are currently 57,863 people on this subreddit. It should be fairly easy for us to get over 10,000 NPCs."
Redna Shortwit,Etiquette and Social Graces for Young Noble Women," She is stout, dowdy, only about five feet tall, but projects a grand and stately image. She is strictly proper. A modest and prudent puritan, and obstinate in her expectation of the same from her students. She professes a reverence for the patriarchal hierarchy and for the domestic position of women in the Kingdom of Prideline, she has been a leader in the education of hundreds of proper young women and, in the eyes of the Crown, has helped to embolden the stability of the status quo. The truth is that Professor Shortwit has for decades been the architect of an uprising. An army of fearless empowered young women in waiting, courageous and ready at a moments notice to execute a coup upon the King."
Erilar,"Headmistress, former Chair of Extraplanar Studies"," Erilar is a Tiefling sorcerer who devoted her life to studying the Great Old Ones. Unfortunately, they've taken no notice of her - in a better world, she'd be a warlock. Surprisingly, however, she is a genuinely good person. She believes that it is the duty of magic-users to improve the world around them and help others. How she imagines the Great Old Ones could possibly be part of this is anyone's guess."
Godmund,Vice-head of the University," Godmund is a male human warlock. He wants quiet order. Nothing elaborate, just everything to work the way it should. He will gladly hand off tasks to someone else if that means he can handle more important things. He is an overweight, slightly balding man who wears a look of general frustration all the time. His robes are disheveled and generally in disarray, and he tends to look like he’s not had time to get dressed. His complexion is generally blotchy and red. He, too, is interested in the Great Old Ones, much to Erilar's frustration."
Lota Riverbend,Abjuration Studies (and dabbles in Conjuration)," Lota is a female halfling, and is mainly motivated to prove herself. She takes mistakes very seriously, and will be much harder on herself than on others. Lota isn’t humorless, as she often feels the need to point out. She tells people that she likes to have fun, but no one has seen evidence of this. She needs to assert her power and her superiority, possibly because of being a Halfling. This strikes many people as odd, as Halflings are often very comfortable in who they are."
Fingali,Grimoierery and Spellbook Theory," Fingali is a male human wizard who specializes in the construction and theory of spellbooks and grimoires. He's well-versed in bookbinding, calligraphy, and runic arts, and is constantly making and re-making his own spellbook to make it ""The best it's ever been."" He has a very fine collection of old spellbooks. When - gods forbid - a fellow professor passes away, he has a very hard time holding back his urge to ransack the dead person's room. He has one book in his collection that he never shows anyone - the Black Grimoire of the Necromancer Tsyesende. It was thought lost, and he fears for his life if anyone should find out he has it. He is meticulous and detail-oriented, and has very little patience with sloppiness. Once his interest is piqued, however, he is unshakable."
John Quimbly,Professor of Runic Language," John Quimbly is a human male, who due to his surprisingly short stature is often mistaken for a gnome. He has brown hair and a short busy beard and looks fairly young despite his receding hairline. Professor Quimbly is an expert in runic languages, having published various books on decoding them. Unfortunately for his students, sometimes, the professor swaps into the runic languages, in moments of excitement, forgetting that he is teaching about them, not discussing them with someone of his own expertise."
Yagnar Orearm,Professor of Metallurgy," Yagnar Orearm is a Dwarf, very proud of being so, who teaches the science of metals: their properties, production, and purification in the Institute of Military Sciences in East Ravenheart. The Dwarf, grumpy and strict in nature, requires the absolute best from his students and accepts nothing but excellence on his examinations and practicum. However, many students report that outside of class, the dwarf makes a great advisor, for life and drink, and is an incredible arm wrestler. Once per term, the dwarf gives any student the chance to defeat him in an arm wrestling match in exchange for perfect marks on an examination. No student has ever conquered this challenge yet."
Wingle Grimblesnout,Professor of Olfaction," Professor Grimblesnout could easily be mistaken for a dwarf or a gnome simply due to his incredibly small stature, and the fact that he is so bent over that his head is level with his chest. Having been in a family of alchymists he was introduced to the craft at a young age. He always had an impeccable sense of smell, and no one quite knew why. The reason behind this is that he was infected with Lycantrhpy Rota when he was a child. In the laymans terms, he is a rat lycan. Grimblesnout has quite the passion for smell. making sure that his students know the importance of knowing every regent in your laboratory by smell, he really revels in particular odours, some of them delightful, some of them less so. He is especially fascinated by powerful smells, whether it is the delightful aroma of an effervescent love potion. Or the overbowering stench of a troglodyte. Smells just fascinate him. He tends to forget that having Troglodyte extract shoved up your nose, doesn't really excite the students as much as it excites himself, and of course anyone lucky enough to be out of noseshot. Don't ask him what Olfaction is. In his eyes, the science of smell, is the groundwork to every other important science."
Ved Sharpsnout,"Chair and founder of the Dept. of ""Traps and Other things Relating to Them,"" former Prof. of ""Home Defense Through Any Means"""," None but the headmistress know how a lowly kobold managed to secure a position as a professor at the university, but here he stands, nonetheless. Ved is rather tall for a kobold, standing just over 3 feet in height, and is quite excitable. It is clear to any who take his classes that the kobold is passionate about his field, and from the testimony of those who have taken any of the scaly professor's classes, Ved is a surprisingly enjoyable teacher, who is genuinely invested in his students' works. While he isn't the most intelligent person in the world, he makes up for it with immense creativity and unwavering determination. Still, creativity and determination alone doesn't prevent the poor kobold from becoming the unfortunate victim of nearly all of the jerry-rigged traps he shows as an example to the class. Ved, along with a small following of his former students, were able to found a new department (which Ved personally named and is immensely proud of), with the headmistress's approval, in order to better inform future adventurers and dungeon-crafters alike about the intricacies of trap design."
Cardon Coldsorrow,The Scriptures of Jundard of the Sun," Coldsorrow is half-orc Cleric of Jundard, a minor sun god with a small monastic community. The library is mainly full of scriptures collected from the few prophets the religion has gathered over the years, and it is Coldsorrow's dream to be able to compile them into a proper holy book. Until then, he seeks out visionaries and converts, and writes down every decision the head of his order makes, all in a hope of finding a unified dogma. He's unusually short for a Half-Orc, but solid, and his usually cheerful demeanor fades when he drinks. Before taking up the Clergy, he was a soldier in a failed war."
Raxton Dafner,Professor of the Barbaric Arts," Raxton is a Dwarf with an extraordinarily short temper, this has lead him into the Barbarian class where he has learned to control and manipulate his rage. Raxton is a mature balding Dwarf who has no time for messing around, when you are in his class he expects complete attention. Very often in his class you will be taken on ""field trips"" into the surrounding area where Raxton is known to rage and demonstrate his abilities to the class."
Cormik Lash,Actionable Artifice for the Active Adventurer," Cormik is short even by rock gnome standards, reaching only 3 feet tall. However, he compensates for his short stature by standing and pacing on his paper strewn desk during lecture. Students have a hard time taking him seriously in his oil-stained trench coat, threadbare top hat, and obscenely unkempt handlebar mustache."
Reese Wizardspoon aka Mr. Universe,Greater Illusory Theory; Opening your Mind's Eye," Reese is a rather young and out of place professor thrust into the spotlight by his elaborate illusions performed on the streets. His recent addition to the college does not sit well with many of the tenured professors who see him as a goth-dressed charlatan with the nonchalance of a spoiled brat. He is, in fact, all of those things."
Osborn Goodbarrel,History and Culture of Halfling Society," For many years, Professor Goodbarrel taught the young Halflings in his burrow. However, many of his students have left the burrow to travel the world - the latest trend amongst adolescent Halflings. At the moment, Professor Goodbarrel enjoys teaching the few remaing youngsters, but he has considered going on a journey himself, to see what all the fuss is about."
Faelen Leororis,"Former Professor of Poetic Studies, currently Head of the Drama Club"," Faelen Leororis taught poetry for many decades, and even though she was notorious for her high demands, her courses were actually quite popular. Her current project is the adaptation of a great Elven epic into a theater performance."
Jofrit Windshield,Social Studies and Philosophy," Anyone who strays too close to 'Professor' Windshield's regular table at the ""Drunk Skunk"" will be immediately enter his ""School of Hard Knocks"". Here, he imparts on his more or less willing students the lessons he learned during his life. Students who are willing to give this perpetually drunken Dwarf a secod chance may, however, learn something more profound than they had expected."
Terrence Fitterleigh,Tenured Professor of Illusory Menageries," For many years Terrence's lanky frame slumped behind a pulpit, shoulders sagging, eyelids drooping. He had been proclaimed a wunderkind in his field of illusion decades earlier, achieving in years what renowned elven wizards take decades to accomplish. It was only when he rediscovered his childhood dream of interacting with great, exotic beasts- and found he could, in his own way, bring them to life- that his love for his work was rekindled. He's currently attempting to create a complete set of parchment cards that will allow the animals to interact with each other- although once he's completed it, who knows what he'll do with it, and the tedium of academia will no doubt come crawling into his life again. I recently reread /u/LiberatedCapsicum 's post on Magic the Cardening and I'm looking for a way to squeeze it into my next campaign from the get-go. This seemed like a good fit!"
Samuel Sodder,Professor of Magical Herbology," A hulking man who footsteps crash through the halls Samuel inspires fear in his students. This firebolg stands near 8 feet tall and usually carries with him at least one book for either pleasure reading, research, or class. New students fear him until they take his class however, then they understand he is a soft spoken, kindly individual. He understands that not all students have vast interest in the world of magical plants and their many beneficial properties but he never the less expects his students to try. His office equally suited for him. No desk, just several large bookshelves, a fire place and several squashy armchairs. Students who choose to come to his office hours can expect to be stuck in a lengthy chat for upwards of an hour for a simple question. His passion and appreciation for his subject is endless and he hopes to instill that in his students. As a result his students tend to try harder in his class, less out of interest in the class but more out of appreciation for the professor."
Ortyn Lutraine,Urban Demography: Race Relations in Novo Kharkus," Skyrocketing to academic fame with his recent treatise on the use of human negotiators in tackling Dwarven gang wars, Ortyn Lutraine is the poster child of Altus University's Sociology Department. The young human is as often found sitting in on council meetings to advise on civil unrest issues as he is charming students in his lecture theatre: his foppish mop of brown hair, dazzling grin and red velvet waistcoat seem tailored to the latter, however. Flamboyant appearance aside, the Professor is an inspiring man, delivering impassioned speeches fluently in any of the five languages of Novo Kharkus. If anyone were to meticulously trace the sacks of gold allocated to Lutraine's field work, however, they would find substantial amounts in the hands of Dwarven militants and High Elven supremacists alike. Having stepped into the scholastic spotlight and enjoyed the perks it brings, Lutraine is remaining relevant for years to come..."
Verisimilitude Merkins,Professor of the Illusionary Arts, A handsome middle-aged male Tiefling who is a hit with most of the students and faculty. He is rumored to have crossed certain student-teacher boundaries more than a few times. Alumni of the schools he has taught at tend to develop arguments about what he looks like.
Brinto,Professor of Irritatingly Repetitive Melodies That Get Stuck In Your Head For Days And Just As you've Forgotten About Them Someone Walks Past You Humming Them," A balding, blonde, half-elf who is always under-dressed. Professor (""Please, just Brinto"") Brinto is clearly something of an outsider to the faculty. He spends most of his time under the largest tree upon campus absentmindedly strumming his 9-string Lute. He never teaches formal classes, preferring instead to spend his time in one on one sessions with students he has dubbed 'visionaries'. Murmurings amount the faculty suggest he was expelled from several bardic colleges and only retains a position at his current location because he holds knowledge over the Arch-Chancellor."
Ruklau the Knobbed,Experimental transmutation magic," Short, ugly, misshapen fellow who looks a bit like a goblin crossed with a warthog crossed with a dirty leather knapsack. A tuft of black feathers juts out of his left eyebrow, and his right hand is a gnarled, arthritic claw. Despite his appearance, he is well-spoken and very articulate, and it's difficult to tell what his original race was. He doesn't seem the least bit concerned about his looks, and is certainly capable of changing his form, but no one knows why he chooses to look the way he does. He's always surrounded by the scent of aromatic pipesmoke, and particularly enjoys when the university chef prepares mutton stew."
Rosaline DeVoute,Woodworking and Survival Skills," Rosaline is a tall and fragile woman. Standing at 6'3 she is very quick and nimble on her feet. Long white hair flows and borders her small fragile face. While she gives the cold shoulder to most, her students know her as a kind and gentle soul. She wishes only the best for her students and wants everyone to learn basic survival. While she loves the outdoors, nothing can be out of place."
Avyer Thornen,Royal Etiquette and Duties," Avyer is an extremely proper (to the point of appearing snobbish) elf. This is largely due to his responsibility: Avyer has been the private tutor for more than a dozen generations of young human princes and princesses. Though he is mostly out of the picture by the time a ruler comes of age, Avyer is quite possibly the most powerful elf in the human kingdoms, and is always well regarded by his former pupils."
Prestor Brine,Non-mundane Animal Husbandry," This professor is short-of-stature, with large gesticulations when recounting one of their countless stories on the field. Though they come across as blunt or loud to others, there is a quiet calmness when interacting with magical beasts. On both accounts, they are quick to attend to any action that subtle, passive aggressive, or ""raises flags""."
Milton Treadmoor,"Magic in Cosmetology: Skills, Theory, and Ethics"," This tenured elven professor has made a name for himself both in academia and business. No one is just quite sure how much of his work goes into his own flawless appearance, but many pranks of Dispel Magic have not yet revealed the answer. Despite the foppish demeanor, he is utterly serious about his work and refuses to teach anyone less dedicated. There are rumors that he wants to establish his own dedicated beautician school."
Frida Darringer,"TA, Primordial 101", She is a gifted tiefling with a fear of public speaking. Not that she is in public much; she tends to be deep in research or doing work for colleagues she was too meek enough to refuse. Her favorite activity is talking at length to students about shared interests.
Hamish,ninja edit," An aged human with fading white hair and a tranquil presence. He is not a conventional professor, certainly not by trade. The most detailed of his past is that of a retired adventurer's, who ended a bout of globetrotting at the University he now resides in. Though he never speaks of his adventuring days, whatever he experienced doubtlessly impacted the man's mission to help the mentally-affected. It is also thought to have impacted his own sanity as well..."
Hermann Kremmler,Dean of Arcanarcheology," Kremmler is an old human man with a bent back and thinning grey hair, fond of wearing patterned skullcaps to cover his head. He is ornery and grumpy at the best of times, but he is also one of the leading experts on magical items from previous civilizations. In spite of his advanced age, his general style of teaching is to bring students along to ruins and dungeons and lecture in between traps being sprung and skeletons coming to life. Some have accused him of using his students as expendable fodder so he can make more discoveries, but his fellow staff are willing to overlook any ""accidental"" deaths so long as his discoveries bring the university acclaim and funding."
Johan Alkenstav,Professor of Religious Artifacts," A musclebound human man who would honestly look more at home in a gladiatorial pit than a classroom, Alkenstav's gregarious attitude draws in students from all over the university. He works closely with the local clergy to identify magical items of a divine origin and is remarkably open-minded in terms of religion, even collaborating with followers of faiths looked down upon in the city. This has caused him no end of trouble, but a combination of tenure and an odd friendship with Hermann Kremmler have kept him employed and teaching."
Alienor Serre,Visiting Professor of Underdark Botany and Medicine," Serre is an elven woman visiting from one of the forest enclaves. She keeps her platinum blonde hair pulled back into a ponytail, her face set in a polite but cold expression. She doesn't speak much of her time back in the enclaves, but many suspect that she was a slave that escaped the drow before she became a visiting professor at the university. Those who believe this theory point to her area of expertise and how much she knows of the medicinal properties of the various fungi and lichens endemic to the Underdark. Serre remains silent on the subject."
Instructor Aamin Marritza,Proper Filing Systems and Book Keeping in the Military," Marritza is a grey scaled Yuan-Ti Mallison (Type 1) who served in the military as a filing clerk. He was regarded as a superb military employee and his filing system was considered a masterpiece of meticulous exactitude. In all his years he never lost a single file and was offered a post at the military academy as an instructor to teach filing. He is very punctual, very thorough and very, very orderly. A single pencil out of place is almost insulting to him, a messy desk almost incorrigibly barbaric. Beyond that he is a very patriotic but also very moral man with no taste for torture, senseless killing and cruelty of any kind. In private he has uttered misgivings about past conflicts and the war crimes commited during those. His current location is unknown."
Merrik Thicktail,"Taxonomy and Gastronomy of Swamp Creatures, Great and Small"," Merrik is of average height, but his course of study and eating habits keep him as close to obese and any lizardfolk can be. The course (known to students as ""T and G"") is a field study of fauna of a local swamp where Merrik and students learn to classify several species of creatures ranging from dragonflies to alligators and learn preparation techniques for several 'cultural delicacies' of the lizardfolk tribe that inhabits the swamp. Field gear and anti-acids recommended and additional fees may be charged for spices."
Rogo Morihei,Philosophy & Martial Wisdom," Morihei is an aged male Dragonborn with narrow eyes and faded silver scales. He wears a long, stiff beard and loose, simply adorned robes. His bushy whiskers extend low, blending seamlessly with his white beard. ""The Way of the Warrior has been misunderstood. It is not a means to kill and destroy others. Those who seek to compete and better one another are making a terrible mistake. To smash, injure, or destroy is the worst thing Dragonkind can do. The real Way of a Warrior is to prevent such slaughter - it is the Art of Peace, the power of love."""
Quintus Epicurus,"Arch-Mage of The Geddaye Order, and Professor of Advanced Classified Arcana"," Arch-Mage Quintus is an innocuous looking human man of about 60 years. He wears the same indigo robes and enormously wide brimmed black hat everyday. He allows them to grow dingier with each passing day, despite having the ability to simply prestidigitate them into perfect condition with the snap of his fingers. Being too busy for even that, Quintus has a multitude of better ways to spend his time and he keeps track of all of them in his head. Well .... almost all of them. He often forgets about his ""Classified Arcana"" class when his attention is on important research. In fact, he only shows up to about a third of the classes, much to the chagrin of his peers in the College of Geddaye. He is supremely gifted in his intuition of Arcane arts, having mastered all 5 schools in only 30 years of study. There are whispers amongst the senior members that Quintus should be removed from the post of Arch-Mage in favor of someone with more... experience. After all, Quintus is the first Human to run the Geddaye in a millennia."
Evelyn Nate,Conjuration and Infernal Studies," Professor Nate appears as a stern woman, wih sharp features that seem just on the cusp of middle age. She is known as a harsh but fair teacher, and anyone who gets top marks in her class is considered a rising star at the school. While she doesn't appear particularly old, the school records indicate she taught many famous wizards who are well into their old age, or even dead many years. Her seemingly wternal youth is the source of much speculation among students, ranging from an infernal pact, to being a pit fiend disguised as a mortal woman."
Philister Carnival,Artifact crafting," Well known to academia as a master of his craft, he is also well known among his local peers as ""The Childish Professor"". While his perpetual enthusiasm is on first meeting intoxicating, his often meandering trains of thought, unrestrained manners and know-it-all arrogance can become tiresome if no-one is there to keep him in check. While many can criticize his person, nobody can deny that it is his odd imagination that has allowed him to make many advances in the field of magical items. Most of his students just study from the textbook."
Grace Akita,Tea-making," While her course is often joked to be ""caveman's potion-maker"", the art of making tea is one that teaches less of the substances that are produced and more of simple meditation. Nobody has ever heard her raise her voice louder than necessary, and she is known for having the patience of a statue. Her lessons often stick with her students and show through in other fields such as advanced magika, fine arts and politics. When she is not teaching, she can be found meditating in her classroom with a hot kettle nearby for anyone who wishes to join her."
Elyseus Longgrass,are," In all of the courses he teaches, he is praised by the students for his performence capabilities, and for the ability to explain difficult things in simple terms. He is rumored to work on some crazy idea -- something about shooting himself on the moon in giant firework rocket. It's probably fake news though..."
Valentin Beaulieu,Dean of the Department of Enchantment and Charms," Professor Beaulieu is a charismatic dreamboat. A very charismatic dreamboat. It seems he is friends with everyone: students, faculty and beyond. Seen from the outside, the devotion he inspires actually seems a bit creepy and might lead one to suspect him of using his powers for evil. In actuality Valentin is just a really nice person to be around. He isn't even that good an enchanter, but have gotten promoted again and again, due to how much the head of the university likes him. He doesn't think he deserves the position, but he doesn't want to embarrass his friend, so he just does his best. Though, at least the students love him, and his underlings do their best to cover for their beloved dean."
Tryskin Bridgetpants,Professor of Applied Life Sciences and Regeneration," Professor Tryskin is an energetic gnome with a short stature, an impressive moustache and an eternal love for his field. If you get him talking, you'll be hard pressed to get him to stop talking, as he wanders from subject to subject to off-kilter tangent. It is a moderately well kept secret that Tryskin is working on a cloning program to allow certain individuals of wealth and power to survive in a new body, if they should suffer an accident with their old one. It is a secret known only to the clone masquerading as Tryskin that the real Tryskin has been on vacation for the past seven months. The clone is getting worried, since Tryskin really should have been back by now."
Crael Dusken,Professor of Heraldry," An unassuming, mousy woman with long blond hair, Crael loves the study of Heraldry and the study of noble lineages. She hates students. She hates people asking her questions. If everyone would just leave her alone to her studies everyone would be much better off. Her colleagues have taken to borrow scrolls and books from her extensive collection to answer questions for inquiring souls, rather than subject them to her acerbic personality."
Durkin Trollkiller,Professor of Monstrous Metahumans," This stout dwarf with the big bushy black beard has found a new profession after his previous one as a monster hunter. He doesn't have any particular love for the subject, but he has learned a lot about it by necessity, and has found that the career as a professor is less dangerous than his previous one. He does need to stop filling half his class room time with anecdotes, if he wants to keep the position."
Professor Hornsby,Professor of Archaeology and Ancient Artifice," Professor Hornsby is a typical dottering academic who loves to dig through ancient ruins to unearth ancient artifacts. He specializes in ancient writing, especially arcane runes, scrolls, and diagrams for lost magical constructs. Although he loves digging through ruins, he is rarely prepared for the dangers of what has since taken up residence, having no adventuring experience. His studies have taught him to cast up to third level spells, but he mostly prepares spells to help in his studies more than in combat, like Gust of Wind to clear sand from a ruined tablet."
Kimri Godsblade,Dwarven Historian," Descended from a family of faithful Paladins of Moradin, Kimri bucked tradition a bit by becoming a scholar. She still retains some of the faith and training her parents instilled in her, but now she focuses on traveling the world to collect the histories of dwarvenkind from all kinds of isolated villages, from the lowlands to the hills to the swamps, in the hope of piecing together the true origin of her dwarves and publishing it in her magnum opus."
Quilton Maxim,Professor of Physics," A devout, human professor who spends much of his time on his research and experimenting, however in truth, and it is known to his colleagues, he is a remarkably unremarkable individual. Having short brown hair and glasses while always wearing dull clothing, he has not contributed anything of note to the department or to his students, boring most of his students to death with pointless lectures. He does however, spend much of his time in the canyon near town observing rocks fall."
Babus Turalius,Professor of Archaeology and Language," An old, renowned Dwarven hero who adventured the lands in his youth, Babus now teaches at Zarditar's University of Magic. He has long, gray hair that matches his equally long beard, and has a large, muscular figure. He loves to take his students to primary sites of research, such as abandoned ruins or excavation sites, and give them real-hand experience with the subject, something he believes is invaluable. He is known for his quirky, circular glasses that he always wears."
Dianne LeMont,Professor of Alchemy," Dianne LeMont is an elegant woman from an exotic country. She has a sharp face, platinum blonde hair, and piercing, icy blue eyes. Her specialization is Alchemy, with specific interest in extracting the poison of Arachnids. Because of this fascination, she has a hidden closet dedicated to Spiders, including a full-body latex spider suit..."
Captain Onestorm,Tactical Training for Battlefield Combat," Battle-worn, scarred and broken, but still as thick as a tree. Longor Onestorm, Captain to his students, The Hammers of Windspire to many songs and scrolls, has never lost his great courage, or his mirthful spirit. Great physical strength borne of a hard-scrabble childhood, the man is broad and tall. Having spent many years at war, he has lost much and yet he is always genial and full of hopeful optimism. Those he prepares for battle take away much more than skill in the art of melee. They learn from Longor the value in seeing each enemy as more than a monster, in imagining him complexly and understanding that his conviction is as great as their own. And, in the end, having the courage still to kill him in service to the cause; this, Longor holds, is true nobility."
Kroggar Thindleburn,Visiting professor of Survival Among Larger Folk, Kroggar is an odd appearance in civilized society as he is a red kobold and insists on wearing clothing that accentuates his figure and natural beauty as he puts it and while some my find him unappealing there is no disputing he is an expert in his field. He is middle aged for a kobold and often shows disdain towards the larger races while assisting the smaller folk who take his classes. Kroggar treads a close line as he has been brought up to the university board a number times for down marking the taller of the humans and elves that take his class and passing failing shorter students.
Zachariah MacRuaidri,Professor of Demonology and Abyssal Linguistics," Narrow-build and towering over most of his students and fellow professors, Xanthras is an individual of very few words and even fewer public appearances. When he does interact with others, the albino speaks his mind and with only the bare-bones of syntactical structure to get his point across as quick and simple as possible. When he doesn't teach his admittedly quite small courses on psyionics, he keeps to the university archives and tends to the tens of thousands of books with almost feverish tenacity and fanatic devotion - often not so subtly threatening painful, sometimes even lethal consequences to any fool who might damage one of the precious scrolls or almanacs. Most of the student body, and quite a few of his colleagues are relieved that he mostly keeps to the library. After all, even to the most seasoned of adventurers and arcanists, an honest to the gods Illithid can and will invoke a feeling of unsettling dread - even if he wears a professor's robes. With his fiery hair, sunken-in green eyes, pointed nose and lanky stature, Zachariah resembles more a crazed, animated scarecrow than a regular human being, and is known for his snide, with colloquialism and broad accent-riddled remarks and the sheer limitless supply of whiskey he is somehow able to pull from the insides of his coat. It is universally agreed on that the only reason he has not been kicked out of the university yet, is the fact that 1) despite his eccentrism and occasional spouts of jackassery, he is a very dedicated and capable teacher, 2) he possesses vast and intricate knowledge of the Abyss and its inhabitants, no doubt related to the warlock's fiendish patron, and 3) he proved himself to be absolutely willing to put an accidentally released glabrezu in a headlock if it meant protecting his students."
'Art' Damakos,potent, Edit: Some spelling.
Bezeldore the Blue,Hydromancy and the Finer Aspects of Bathing," A bright-eyed, portly gnome with a welcoming smile and a light blue beard that is dyed regularly to retain its lustre. He is usually dressed in dirty, smeared robes and is always accompanied by an imp named Selimvad who carries Bezeldore's books. When not lecturing classes at The Starry Wisdom School for the Gifted, he can be found sculpting ice statues, reading a lengthy tome or performing short plays in the city square with his ice constructs."
Shanu the Binder,Strategic Enchantment and War-scrying," Shanu is a slender dryad with a surprising affinity for studied magic and the nature of war. How she can live so far from her tree is likely beyond anyone's guess, but her mysterious green robes may have something to do with it — not that she'd give a straight answer if one were to ask. She is usually pleasant when meeting new people, but suffers no fools. She is particularly protective of her students at The Auerbach Circle Institute ('saplings' as she affectionately refers to them) and will not hesitate to dispatch anyone who appears to be a threat to the school."
Lorne Proudstump,Herbalism Professor," Dirt on his coat, moss on his hat, and a smile that seldom leaves his face, Professor Proudstump is often a pupils favourite. Small, even for a gnome, he radiates an upbeat energy, genuinely in love with his field of study and eager to pass that love on. He is often seen trying to convince some of the more magically inclined staff to teleport him to other planes, in hopes of getting new and exciting 'friends'. He does not abide people treating his plants poorly, and will threaten to prune the fingers of students who do so. It has only happened twice, and its rumored if he snips a third finger, he will be fired."
Fonix the Barbarian,crash courses on Goliath cuisine," Fonix is a male goliath with deep green piercing eyes, extremely pragmatic, he with zeal tries the best to cook and eat the inedible, he dreams to one day be able cook even the common pebble into a dish worthy of the gods, cries if in the presence of anyone noticeably hungry."
Gertrude Rosenburger,Spell Pronunciation 101," Gertrude always speaks with perfect enunciation, to the point that it is almost annoying how much she will slow down multi-syllabic words in order to emphasize certain parts. Gertrude is an elf with a very pronounced pair of lips. When she is not speaking actively, they are puckered. She wears a black gown and carries several of what she calls ""dud"" spell components for teaching class."
Jarl Goondugg,Somatic Components for Basic Spellcasting," Jarl is a decrepit tiefling who wears a series of hats with holes for his curved, black horns. He has light purple skin, and wears a series of decorative bracelets a la Johnny Depp. Jarl is but 3 months away from retirement, and it definitely shows in how much his hands shake. The tremors in his hands (due to his age) have a way of twisting the spells he teaches, much to the dismay of his cautious students."
Leowick Hieg,Weaving," This grizzled old man sports a beard that gets shorn, like his sheep, twice a year. He is patient and enjoys the company of people, but is slow to trust. He keeps a ledger with records of whom he owes favors to, but does not track the favors he is owed. He teaches courses in animal husbandry, and his pupils learn the skill of making cloth starting from the birth of a lamb. Only the most advanced students are allowed access to the workshop with the looms."
Melinda Court,Philosophy," Melinda is a tall human woman in her sixties with very dark skin, her graying hair tied back in many small braids, then gathered in a bun. Her wrists clatter with wooden jewelry, and she's always accompanied by the scent rose perfume. She can be found around campus on sunny days, lounging in the grass with her students as they discuss ethical theory and the nature of truth as equals. In her spare time, she secretly publishes controversial anarchist pamphlets under the pseudonym 'A Thoughtful Lady', where she calls for the end of all social hierarchies."
Arelias Verisaren,Elven Studies," Arelias is a slight high elf clad in colorful silk scarfs, with long silver hair and brows arched in an expression of wry amusement. He specializes in contemporary northern high elf poetry and the Elvish language, but as his university's token elf, he has diversified to teach classes on elven history, culture, and religion. With a dry wit and cynical sense of humor, Arelias is popular among his students, less so among his fellow staff. The students he develops close relationships with tend to confide in him, and he knows all manner of secrets. Arelias is married to the dwarven professor of history, Korren Silvervein, and the two can often be seen observing, assisting, and substituting in one another's classes."
Korren Silvervein,History," Korren is well-built dwarf under is his tailored suits, his dark hair neatly trimmed, with olive colored eyes that beam benevolently from behind a pair of half-moon spectacles. He teaches the history of several civilizations, particularly that of human and dwarven kingdoms. Korren has a fatherly air, with a patient but serious manner that makes students inclined to please him. More than a few envied historical tomes and artifacts are secreted away in his personal collection. Korren is married to the elven professor of elven studies, Arelias Verisaren, and the two can often be seen observing, assisting, and substituting in one another's classes."
Theda Norwood,Physics and Chemistry," One of the few faculty members at her university whose subject does not deal with the arcane, Theda has throughout her career been passionate about the value of learning about the universe(s) through a physical, rather than magical, lens. She is a short, good-natured human woman whose hands are perpetually stained with various chemicals, and she'll be perfectly willing to talk for hours about the recent scientific advances in the study of motion and the behavior of gases. She's very easily excited, and loves to learn."
Sage Octavia Nymphidia,"Headmistress, formerly Application of Magical Theory: Advanced Transmutation"," A tall, poised, and long-suffering sun elf, Octavia was one of the most stern transmutation professors at Hellenes University. Tardiness is not tolerated except in the case of major injury, malady, or magical mishap. Her exam practicums also had a reputation for being exceedingly difficult. Even as headmistress, she continues to tolerate no shenanigans from students, and only barely from certain faculty members. The root of this sternness is her omnipresent no-nonsense seriousness. Normally this would be intimidating, but Octavia's possibly subconscious penchant for theatrics makes it quite comical. Not that anybody will say it to her face, of course, but the ""Octavia the Bard"" can be heard in whispers about her from students and faculty alike."
Gavin Megarit,"Herbalism, Alchemy, and creation of useable consumables"," He is broad and imposing. Prefers to dress in work clothing and avoids fancy, formal outfits. His classes are fast-paced and students are often challenged to keep up. He is a great teacher for those students who have an inclination for the fields, but has no time or patience for those who have trouble following along. His homework assignments are in-depth to say the least; some former students have claimed to have PTSD from his assignments."
Professor Windil Bimbleton,Head Researcher Of Positive Energy," An eccentric hafling that stands three and a half feet tall. He is high energy which he always claims is a result of the miracle working properties of positive energy. He has knowledge about the plane, substance, and spiritual nature of positive energy. He can go on for hours about the stuff. If asked he can provide accurate information about negative energy as well but doesn't seem as passionate about it. He also has a collection of manuscripts he wrote himself on varying subjects all some how tying into positive energy. One of his more unusual beliefs is that positive energy is the substance that makes up souls and therefore is part of the natural procreation cycle of all life."
Ermgurd Longbreath,Head Researcher Of Negative Energy," Ermgurd is the head researcher of negative energy at the same university as Windil. She is a slightly short half orc woman. She has a heavy fatigued brow and she rarely expresses much emotion. She can answer almost any question about negative energy, undead, the plane of negative energy/shadowfell, or necromancy. She doesn't talk much and barely holds conversation. She has an odd yet understandable friendship with Windil. They work fairly closely."
Melkin Vasnin,Head Of Extra Planar Studies," A gaunt half-elf male with a narrow face. He talks with sophistication and uses as many big words as he can. Some times he makes up new words when he feels that he can't express something with normal ones. He has knowledge about planar things. His focus is usually on the upper planes (Heaven, Utopia, etc.) although he can help with any plane. The more obscure the plane is the more he avoids talking about it. He believes all planes are just a strange demiplane of some greater plane. Every plane is encompassed by a bigger plane. He points to the Astral Sea and other such large planes as a good example."
Kraddic Cobbhearth,Philosophy of Babarianism," Professor Cobbhearth is a halfling of middle age, with all the youth and vigor of one much younger. Built lean with a deep chest and broad shoulders he has strong arms and powerful legs. He is cagey and gleeful in his ferocity and he has a deep and impassioned reverence for primal rage, an emotion that he believes to be the only authentic thing a true warrior can feel in battle. While those raised in barbarian tribes either do not take to contemplative endeavors, or follow those endeavors far and away from the barbaric battle arts, Kraddic Cobbhearth embraced and enjoined the two. A professor keen on active praxis over hollow pontificating, his classroom is in the field. He is glad for his tenure as a professor, and has great respect for those students who veer from the traditional barbarian path into his class and into the underexplored study of barbaric philosophy. You can see him most days in the yard, his bald head bobbing and weaving around training weapons, and his great copper mustache, reaching to his knees and bedecked in gems and rings and bones, swaying as he deftly moves. Many years of deeply philosophical self-reflection has given Kraddic a level of emotional control uncommon among barbarians, fortunately for his students as his prowess in battle is surpassed only by a very few great dwarves and orcs of legend."
Percival Sparktrap,Archaeology & the Study of Ancient Civilizations," Percy is a middle aged gnome of roughly three feet five inches who wears spectacles at all times and sports a rather haggard looking beard that's never quite filled out. He has tired, sorrowful eyes having seen many friends come and go all the while handling the stresses of working in some of the most dangerous locations in the world. He is a man of science and learning is his driving passion, even when it gets him into trouble. He and his wife Tilde are field researchers who lead expeditions for the Gnomish Research Academy and Museum (or GRAM for short, pun intended). Unfortunately, his risk-prone lifestyle has caught up with him and Percy now bears very serious scars over the right side of his head and shoulders where he was caught in the blast of a stray Fireball."
Jhoira Douglass (neé Teamorr),Advanced Alchemical and Mechanical Artifice," Jhoira is a female human wizard around 35 years of age. She was dropped off at the Academy at the age of 8, and excelled in her studies to the point where she was asked to stay on as a professor after graduation. As such she has not left the academy town in 24 years. For her dissertation, Jhoira ""gave life"" to several humanoid constructs that now inhabit the town around the academy and pioneered the field of alchemical artifice. Her life revolves around academia and has an almost visceral distaste for small-talk. [DM's note: if a PC asks her about anything other than her or her husband's research you should answer whimperingly and in as few words as possible]. However, when speaking about her or her husband's research her gregarious, bubbly, passionate personality shines through."
Tavish Douglass,Rare and Ancient Languages," Tavish is an Elvish (raised by humans) Fighter-Wizard who's 342 years on this world have been filled with a few too many adventures. Over the course of his adventuring has learned nearly every language (he only knows insults in undercommon but claims that is all one needs to know). He retired from adventuring after losing his right leg and left arm protecting a nearby town from an ancient blue dragon 10 years ago. He now has mechanical limbs (of equal - perhaps greater - strength and dexterity to his previous limbs) made by Jhoira. He is a truly magnanimous individual and is the most energetic individual in every room that he is in. He misses adventuring but has accepted that his mechanical appendages require too much care for him to ever adventure again. Because of this, he loves to live vicariously through the lives and stories of any adventurers he comes across."
Who are these merry magic-makers?,"The pretty little thing smiles as she beckons you onward along the narrow trail, swaying back and forth suggestively as she flies. You know you should follow the main path, but there something about her that you can't resist..."," Between here and /r/DMAcademy, there seems to have been a small run on Feywild posts of late. So let's populate some faerie forests with faeriefolk—pixies, sprites, nixies, nymphs, satyrs, you-name-it. I love pixies and sprites a bit too much, even in a dark, low-magic world, a region of a forest where there is a small community of tiny faeries is a grand opportunity to inject some wonder and to cause light-hearted trouble for the big folk. And, a faerie village can serve as a hub for NPCs, plot hooks, and small-scale supplies in regions of the world that is largely devoid of civilization. The NPCs don't have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could quickly fill in what's missing."
Meliorn of the Unseelie Court,Male Archfey Lord," Platinum blond hair, bright blue eyes, pale skin, wearing spider-silk garments fit for Llolth, emblazoned with gems that gleam like star light. Meliorn is a schemer- calm, patient, and seductive in his ways. Among other archfey, he's not particularly strong, but he seeks power through mortal achievement. He's been known to cut deals with the unwary and the desperate, and will send false-prophets into the world that can grant 'wishes' to the common folk in exchange for a favor in the future. Meliorn collects and saves these favors. To his debtors, these favors are an unbreakable obligation, which carry on into the afterlife."
Whit Wrencaller,Male Pixie Woodcarver," Whit makes carved wooden curiosities—mostly toys and book ends. He makes a fair number of flutes and recorders, but if you want a real treat, you'll catch him while he has one of his fiddles in stock. A perfectionist, Whit trashes nine out of every ten fiddles he starts making. If you're lucky, you'll catch him when he breaks out his own tiny fiddle. When his nimble hand dances across the fingerboard, you can't help but tap your toes and take up the dance too."
Daisy Dewpetal,Female Pixie Landlady/Barmaid," Daisy is cute as a button with iridescent red hair, pouty lips, and golden wings. Daisy runs the Twig and Thistle Inn. She serves some mighty fine pixiewine, and when she dances, you can't help but watch her sway. Her dancing is full of sorrow and passion. Daisy doesn't smile near as much as she used. She's been running the inn on her own since her partner Glip met an unfortunate end."
Old Fox Featherbee,Male Sprite Fletcher," Fox fixes feathers of free-range forest fowl to his fine, finished arrows. Fox makes both large arrows and small arrows. His work is of such quality, several of the wood elves have been known to purchase arrows from Fox. Old Fox loves to talk about his adventures in the forest and never misses a chance to tell the tale of how he came to have that broken wing (it is quite an amusing tale involving an ogre, an elf-maid, and a magic mushroom)."
Buck Boughbender,Male Sprite Bowyer," Across the way from Old Fox, you'll meet Buck the Bowyer. He makes decent bows, but he's not strong enough to string up bows for the big folk. He'll bend your ear regarding the most recent mischief happening at Madame Poppy's place in the pixie town over yonder. Buck's known to be found in his cups, tangled up with one or another of Poppy's girls. People say Madame Poppy owes him some sort of debt of gratitude, so she lets him have a ""special discount"" when he visits."
Poppy Plumdiddle,Female Pixie Madame," Blue-winged and fair-haired, Madame Poppy runs the House of Li'l Repute where all the girls are petite and dusty-eyed. All the girls are faeries of course. They can fiddle and dance and make romance though their methods are a little creative to overcome the mechanical challenges of entertaining big men. Madame Poppy puts on a polite and innocent face, but she knows exactly what she's doing. The girls still chatter and wonder about the time Madame Poppy single-handedly sent a hobgoblin captain and two of his lieutenants off into smiling just a few short minutes after they had squashed poor Glip Pinesap and were threatening to carve up the whole town."
"Roan Daar, Lord of the Sweeping Fen",Male archfey," A minor archfey, Roan Daar nevertheless possesses a full measure of the pride and fickleness inherent in the faerie folk. He takes the form of a tall, impossibly thin humanoid figure, with a reedy voice and deep-set golden eyes, often wearing long robes of woven swamp-grass and lined with cattail-fur. Those trespassing in his swampy domain are often sucked under, only to be returned to the surface unharmed years later. He counts many will-o-the-wisps as his children, and they will often surround him wherever he appears."
Ezel Broadcap,Male killoren artificer," A skilled artificer of no small renown. He can be identified by his clothing first and foremost; a wide-brimmed, pointed hat that seems to be made of frost-covered twigs and small branches, a loose-fitting tunic made from spring shoots and new growth, and trousers woven from fallen autumn leaves. He bears a simple staff, as well. Ezel is brusque and mostly concerned with his own projects, the archetypical preoccupied wizard. Most of his work, however, goes into making small objects and trinkets to make life a little easier for those who discover them. A pouch of small rocks that transmute themselves into silver pieces, which refills each dusk; a willow-twig ring that rustles like wind when danger approaches; a kettle that perfectly seasons any food placed inside."
Pox Petaldew,Male Pixie Police Commissioner," Kin to the respected Dewpetal pixie clan, Commisioner Petaldew is charged with keeping the peace in the Faerie Wood. He is short-tempered and high strung. He is possibly the only Pixie angry enough to use foul language, though who can blame him? Between the the threat of goblin loggers, lost adventurers, and feuding Faun clans, someone has got to maintain order in the Faerie Wood."
Sel'adrin Grintooth,Female Faerie Dragon Trickster," Lives in a secluded forest mostly burned down by Gnolls. She uses illusions to make the forest seem huge and alive and loves to trick passing travelers with illusionary treasure chests sunken in the lush vegetation. She stays behind until her young return, unbeknownst that they were kidnapped by the Gnolls after they destroyed the forest."
Merilin Lean,Male Faun Silklarvae-trader," Faun in fancy cloths, only small crooked horns. Hates to be called satyr and he has an addiction to poppyflowers. He is a charismatic and skillful trader."
Simyera Lac,Female nymph/mermaid gossiper," Lives in a small lake next to a forest road, beautiful and halfnaked. She will try to lure you in the deadly cursed water but she has a weakness for all kinds of smalltalk and gossip."
Amalore,Female ? Guide," A giggle on the wind and a ripple in the water, that is who she is. She likes moonlight and sweets. She is an exemplary guide when fed with sweets every day, but you can not try to find and see her, that is rude."
Mika and the Bear,Female faery kid, Mika is a small faery kid which is always found protected by her dire bear. She lost her home and is looking for an invisible silver key that will allow her to return home.
Lush,Male little satyr trickster," Lush is small, very small, even for satyr size. He is a compulsory liar and he will not even hide it. He knows a little magic, has a lot of luck and cheats at cards and stones. He spends his day following random strangers on their trips and eats their food and drink their wine in return for random falls facts about the area."
Glitterball,Female Pixie Trickster," She is all about turning people into butterflies. The first time people are aware of her is when one of their number suddenly disappears and a floating, winged flier takes their place. She is not malicious and has the personality of a very young child. If she thinks she's in trouble she'll fly away but if asked kindly, she'll turn your friend back to normal."
Flitterwing,Male Sprite Envoy," Highly serious and to the point, he is an envoy of an arch-fey and takes every excursion as of critical importance. He is quick to arm himself with his tiny bow, dripping with the most powerful sleep poison in the fey but prefers not to use it. His objectives are a secret he will keep till death and failure is never an option."
Delia Firenut,Female Sprite Singer," Delia is usually dressed in short yellow dress made up of autumn leaves, and has her naturally red hair tied in a ponytail. As most faeries, she too is curious about humans, but at the same time keeps a distance from them, secretly believing that fey are superior to the mortal races. She was singer until the moment her voice was stolen by unseelie satyr."
Sargaritis,Female Nymph Arcanist," Her hair the color of hazelnut usually sticks to her seductive face since it's always wet, just as her white dress. Being an intelligent fey, she sprinkles her speech with occasional eloquent word that would seem out of place for an unseelie nymph. She likes to tease mortal men, prefering humans and halflings and trying to drown them in her home lake as a joke. Even though its touch doesn't have any effect on her, she is disgusted by the idea of her or her home lake coming in contact with cold iron. Deep in her home lake, she hides a little cavern with several books about magic and the nature of weave she likes to read in her spare time."
Naroth,Male Centaur Warrior," Serving his seelie queen as best as he can, Naroth seems to be black mustang from the waist down, and handsome muscular elf from the waist up. Always ready to fight, he is never seen in public without his specially fitted armor and his lance made of gold and silver. He is courageous, but as it often is said - the line between courage and stupidity is often very thin. Since most children were afraid of him, he was picking up a hobby in his free time - juggling."
Alarn Petfina,Male Eladrin Crystal merchant," Alarn can usually be seen either in the market, town square or arcane district of his hometown, most often wearing one of his colorful robes. He is skilled in getting what he wants, and knows when someone tries to rob him of the business. He likes to walk barefoot everywhere, and started recently studying arcane magic, just to see what exactly do the arcanists always need so many crystals for."
Jezariah Daemaer,Female Eladrin Assassin," Jezariah, or Jeza for short, murders people who deserve it according to her morals. Professional in disguises and infiltration, she usually takes one month to get to know her target, in order to figure whether she should or shouldn't really kill it. Most people don't realize that what seems to be gray hair is really just a wig covering her short blonde hair, and that the scar on her left cheek is just as fake. In her free time, she is an actress working for local theater."
Yoinc,Male Archfey Trickster," Yoinc resembles ginger gnome dressed in green clothes, who likes to cause mischief to the mortals. He likes to welcome them, and introduce them to the ways of Feywild, saying that their welcoming tradition is opposite, and that the mortals have to give him a gift. Anything is considered a great gift by him as long as it's offered freely. However, those who take too long or outright refuse giving Yoinc a gift are misfortunate enough to be robbed by him. With his power to steal anything, he can pick anything mortal values and escape from them, be it memories, body parts, face, soul, strength... you name it, he can steal it."
Stump,Male Gnome Druid," Stump is a tiny, wizened old gnome who dresses in faded brown clothes and carries a token-bedecked staff. He's able to sit so still that he's almost impossible to see in the woodland, appearing as one of dozens of incongruous tree stumps. His patience and skill make him a favorite scout for more powerful fey."
Fuath,Male Dragonsworn King," Fuath is tall and muscular with dark, ebony skin and red-gold eyes burning with madness. Fuath is chief among the fae that pledged their allegiance to the great dragons in the Emergence War. He slew his own brother, the consort of the Unseelie Queen in battle and nearly slew the Queen as well. Corrupted by the power and greed of the dragons, Fuath has taken many of their traits on in the millennia since the war. A fiery temper rules him, as does his vanity. He is determined to bring the world under his sway."
Cellach,Male Unseelie Duke of Winter," Cellach is thin and pale with silver hair and icy blue eyes. Cold, cruel and calculating but possessed of a terrible fury when pressed too far. He is a trickster by nature, taking great joy in toying with the lesser beings, particularly elves as he holds them in low regard (being the spawn of human-faerie ""congress"")."
Croítine,Male Seelie Condemned," Being one of the chief perpetrators of the intermingling of faerie and human blood, Croítine was tried and condemned by both Queens, Tatiana and Mab. He was imprisoned in a spherical ruby, much like several other fae who were condemned. He can reach out through his spherical prison and communicate with those lesser beings who are touched by the Feywild (such as elves and people serving fae lords/ladies). He desires freedom after his two thousand year imprisonment, and is willing to do much for whoever grants it to him."
Old Madam Quincy,Female Brownie Herbalist," A little old woman with an enormous garden, which she cares for very meticulously. Sells herbal remedies and potions of unparalleled quality from her home, though prices are steep. Archenemy of rabbits and vegetable thieves everywhere, she keeps a pet blink dog as a deterrant. Also makes a mean goodberry pie. If a customer tells her a good joke, she might throw one in for free!"
Sasha Starword,Female Pixie Scholar," Much more serious than most of her pixie sisters, Sasha only leaves her miniature library to find new books and scrolls, which she copies into pixie-size versions in beautiful, illuminated manuscript. However, she's very insecure about a pink splotch on one of her wings, where she once spilled rosehip tea and just couldn't get the stain out. Often wears pink to detract attention, though few ever see her anyway."
Unambra,Female Dryad Songstress," A winter dryad with spiky pine needles along her arms and legs, Unambra hibernates for most of the year, awakening with the coming of winter. Her haunting, beautiful voice sings praise to the cold desolation of snowy nights. Unambra's lot is a lonely one, but she takes great pride in it. Is very sympathetic to respectful travelers, and locals know to leave an offering at the base of the tree in which she resides, in exchange for protection."
Averlant,Female Satyr Wandering Poet," Averlant wanders many planes, seeking to meet new folk, local or otherwise. When she comes upon beings she has not met before, she is keen to learn all about them, asking many questions. She will eventually craft a clerihew - a short, witty , biographical poem - about each person. These poems often poke fun at the person, or reveal that she knows far more about them than she has been told. Sometimes they will reveal secrets even the subject of the poem does not know. Averlant is delighted by aptonyms - people whose names are accidentally appropriate eg a Butcher named Bacon - and will bestow special gifts on people bearing one. She will often seek out such people as subjects for her poetry."
Whirliswiz Brasshopper,Male Pixie Tinker," Most pixies seem content to rely on their magic and nature and general mysticism to solve their problems. Whirliswiz has some choice words for those pixies. After a run-in with a band of dwarves, Whirli realized that pixies are the perfect size to do the kind of intricate craftsmanship and tinkering that even the elves struggle with. He set to work right away on designing and creating tiny knobs and gears, most of which don't actually have uses yet, that he knew only he could create."
Cazria Glimmerleaf,Female Nymph Fighter," If the tales around the tavern hearth are to be believed, nymphs come in two varieties: demure nature guardians who care for every tree and bunny or alluring spirits of animalistic hunger and lust. Cazria particularly enjoys mutilating the people who think she's the latter. Rather than share the blessings of nature or any of that hooey, Cazria believes that nature is a thing that must be protected from all those who would defile it. Unfortunately for anyone who happens upon her, Cazria's idea of ""defiling"" includes anything that walks on two legs beside herself setting foot in her forest."
They Provide the Paint for the Picture Perfect Masterpiece Which You Paint on the Inside of Your Eyelids AKA 'Paint',Male ? Revolutionary," Paint is a fae who has taken a strong interest in people. Specifically the downtrodden and the meek. He visits them in the form of a traveling teacher, and after learning of their problems gives them what they wish for to change their position in life. Be it wealth or strength or magic. He then leaves them to decide how best to use their gift, but returns after an indeterminate period of time, and judges their actions. If he believes they have truly become what they desired to be he leaves them as they are, but if they have not achieved their wishes he strikes them down."
Möberon,Male Eladrin Mathematician," A slim and elegant individual with silver hair and wiry glasses, Möberon is often found hunched over his desk, deep in study and research. His adopted son, whom he fought tooth and nail to keep custody of after the divorce, is often playing with other Eladrin children on his front lawn. Möberon has many connections in his field, and is somewhat of a nexus of communication and collaboration among the mathematically minded. His colleagues often refer to him as ""The King of Numbers"". He loves to discuss his research and teach others the wonders of mathematics. Other topics tend to be of less interest to him, unless they pertain to someone he knows well."
"NEIFON THE KNOWLEDGEABLE, of the Court of Stars",Male Archfey Librarian," Neifon is a large rotund owlish fey being who protects the incarnation of the Tree of Knowledge in the Feywild, which acts something like a giant library. He is extremely loud, rambunctious and enthusiastic, and happy to lend out books and scripts to worthy seekers, as long as they promise to bring them. Those who don't return them usually get chased down by owlbears or mortal agents in the Material plane."
Beedle Finfeather,Male Sprite Prankster," Beedle is a small fey, barely 6 inches tall who has something of a lust for gold following adventures in the material plane. He has pale skin with dark hair, black feathery wings, a light needle of bone for a weapon, and a sack he often tries to fill with the coin of any traveller he believes he can pickpocket."
Evelorn the Alpha-Birch,Female Dryad Bully," Beautiful and haughty, Evelorn is a rather sociable pale skinned red haired dryad within a large forest of birch trees, who through gossip and blackmail, has come to manipulate and call favours from most of the other minor fey and woodland beings. She uses this power largely to bully and humiliate travellers in her forest, turning them around, pulling them back, and simply trying to prove the forests dominance over them as she fancies herself a minor ruler. In truth she is far too weak and cowardly to accomplish much, but her trove of secrets and connections woven over the centuries has value that reaches beyond her glades."
Huntmaster Earl,Male Archfey," Forgoing the gaudy trappings of his peers, Huntmaster Earl wears simple arms and armor that slightly accentuate his considerable power. Riding at the head of the Wild Hunt, The Huntmaster takes delight in every second of his dangerous pursuits, for his existence derives off living along the edge where bravery meets recklessness. Sources cannot agree on his motives or his actions. His goals are his own, but if one were to bargain with the Archfey they best appeal to his competitive and eager nature. By no means does that mean he is easy to fool, as he has the instinct of an apex predator."
Flaherty,Male Dryad Minor Noble," A minor noble in the Seelie Court and the brother of Jirvel. He leads a live of luxury in the giant oak in the middle of the glade he calls his domain. This glade is about one acre in size and can only be reached during the twilight hours before dusk and left during the twilight hours after dawn. If somebody gets trapped in the glade by not leaving before sunrise, he offers to let them stay the day in his oak, in exchange for a small favour in the future. If the person agrees this is a binding magical contract that can only be lifted by both parties agreeing to lift it. Other fey generally recognise his claim on the glade and the minor fey living in it adress him as Lord of the Glade and pay tribute to him in the form of minor gifts, which allows him to live his livestlye. In return he takes his promise to protect the glade and all that live in it very seriously. The only thing that means more to Flaherty then the glade and it's inhabitants is his younger sister Jirvel. She is his shining star, his rising sun, his scarlet poppy, something he is very eager to everybody that would listen. He has in fact been spending the last few years looking for a fitting husband, but in his eyes nobody is good enough for his darling sister. You can imagine his suprise when his sister returned from one of her trips in the company of a 1000 years old oak that one of her druid friends had cast awaken on and declared him her fiance. Flaherty, at first reluctant, has by now warmed up to the idea and has been busy with the preparations for the wedding. He has spared no expenses and even called in a lot of favours for this occasion, nothing is too good his sisters wedding. Because of this the wedding will be the most lavish and extravagant thing the forrest has ever seen (flowers from all over the world both as decoration and food for the smaller fey, will-o-wisps captured and stuffed into lantern that float through the air, a satyr band, a fountain of the best wine), and there will be a lot of different guests that traveled from long and far to attend the wedding. (Not only fey, but hags, human nobles, gnomish sages, sentient animals, even some elementals and minor celestials, but anybody is welcome really) If the players arive at the glave it is actually the night of the wedding and they can see the lights and hear the music from anywhere on the glade. Secrets: The giant oak he lives in is actually his bound tree and not only that but it is actually a treant that he merged with centuries ago. They share one mind and if somebody or something threatens the glade the two will merge and the oak will rise and defend it. While merged the two count as one creature, use the Treant statblock, but with a dryads metal stats, skills, innate spellcasting and magic resistance. During the wedding of his sister Flaherty is actually unable to decline any one favour asked of him by one of the guests, provided they brought a present for the bride. This fact is not a secret, but Flaherty doesn't share it willingly with anybody uninitiated. The players might learn of this from one of the other guests, including Jirvel. There is a bit more to his love for his sister then he would ever be willing to puplicly admit. He knows that this is wrong and it gnaws on his mind. He is hoping that once his sister is married he will be able to forget about these feeling, an empty hope."
Jirvel,Female Dryad Minor Noble," The Bride. Sister of Flaherty. While technically a noble of the Seelie Court, she is not yet seen as a proper member since she hasn't bounded yet. This fact means that she is still mortal, still ages, still bleeds, something she wants to change as soon as possible. She knew that her brother could never decide on a husband for her, so she decided to take things into her own hands. She has been using her influence over the forrests animals to search for a fitting husband. While she doesn't have a strong realm like her brother has the fact that she is not yet bonded means she is free to go whereever she pleases and as a result of that her net of favours, while not as strong actually extends even far outside the boundary of their native forrest. Her favorite tools are the birds, because they are the most free of creatures. This is how she learned about an ancient oak, many days travel outside her brothers sphere of influence. An oak so old that nobody she questioned could actually tell her how long it had been around. So she went to Freija, a young female human druid from the nearby village. And they went to seek out this oak and when they found it Freija awakened the old tree. After Freija cast her spell, the tree slowly started to stir and rise, look around, then take notice of the tiny creatures in front of him that had just given him sentience. When asked what his name was, he pondered for what Jirvel experienced to be an excrutiatingly annoying amount of time until finally telling them his name: Greagoir It took forever to get the slow giant back to the glade, especially since the daft fool would allways stop and look onto the most mundane things with amazement. When they finally arived at the glade she imediatly told her brother that she planned to marry the tree. He was at first against it, like she knew he would be, but she also knew that in the end he wouldn't deny her any request. Especially since he knows just how valuable a catch her husband was. And now only the wedding itself stands between her and finally bonding with her husband and becomming a fully fledged and very powerfull dryad. Secrets: Look at Freija's NPC block to find out the story of the two. Jirvel is actually very aware of the true nature of her brothers feeling for her. She doesn't feel the same in any way, she in fact despises him, for beeing so much older and more influential. In her mind, she should have been the one born first and the glade should have been hers. But she knows how to hide her feelings and knows how to use Flaherty's feeling to her advantage. Right now her brother is the most powerfull ally she has, but this might change soon. Her true ambitions are to be much more powerfull then her brother, to become to him as overpowering a presence as he had been to her all these years. She aims to shed the shackles of beeing only a ""minor"" noble, she would become a proper one, somebody that at the mere metion of her name would make all the other fey tremble both in awe and fear at the same time. Her brother might be content with beeing the Lord of the Glade, but she would be the Lady of the whole forrest. The Lady of the Woods, only that would be a proper titel for her. And this marriage is the next big step in achieving this goal."
Freija,Female Human Druid," (I originally had this as part of Jirvel, but it really disrupted the flow of the narative, so I put it here because it is still important for the personality of Jirvel) If you asked Freija what the relationship between the two of them was, she would tell you that Jirvel was something like her fairy godmotherto her. If you asked Jirvel, she would tell you that she owns the girl. A few years back, when Freija was still a young girl learning the druidic ways from their village elder, she fell in love with a local boy called Myca. But Myca was older, his father was the local butcher, so he was quite well of. No way he would fall for the weird local tree girl. But then like in the fairy tails, a beautiful woman apeared to her in the woods and offered her. She knew so much, about how she was in love, how she could get closer to Myca, what to talk with him about to get him to like her. And with her help she managed to win the love of her live. She is now married to Myca, she is the local druid after the elder died and he is a hunter. They have a little daughter aged 3 and a little boy aged 1. She is very gratefull to her fairy godmother and would do anything for her. Jirvel first learned of the girl from one of her spies, the foolish child had actually been talking to the birds about her feelings. She had first gone to her village on a whim, feeling bored she had toyed with the idea of breaking the girls dreams, maybe take the boy away if he was really as handsome as the girl was saying. But when she laid eyes upon the girl she imediatley felt the potential she had to become a powerfull druid, and she had actually allready even found a mentor to guide her. So she made a plan, to take control over this girl, to aquire her while she was still young and dumb and easy to influence. First she charmed the boy, he wasn't really good looking, more like handsome but in a very common way. And once she had the boy devoted to her (an easy task, he was a teenage boy after all), she told him that if wanted to continue their relationship he would have to court this girl for her. She then went to the girl, told her what to do, what to say. In truth nothing the girl could have said, would have stopped the boy, she could have been a pig and he still would have done as Jirvel told him. And so the years passed and the girls power grew, when the girls mentor started to slow down her growth she got rid of him, and the girl grew to be much more powerfull then he had ever been. The boy grew too, when he was told to marry her he did so, when he was told to give her a child he did so, and every time he went out to hunt he would come to seek her out. She had no real desire to be with the boy, but she enjoyed the thought of his wife at home, with her children waiting for her beloved husband to return, while we lay with her amoung the leaves. The girls whole life, dancing as a pawn in the palm of her hand. And now that the girl had fullfilled her purpose she was still a powerfull pawn, but a disposable one. Jirvel very much looks forward to one day telling the girl everything and seeing her whole world crumble."
"Who are these crones, enchantresses, and fortune tellers?","The witch smiles gleefully as she squishes the caterpillar between her fingers. ""Into the pot!"" she smiles as she tosses it into the bubbling, hissing liquid."""," Witches, seers, fortune tellers, and diviners are staples of fantasy worlds. Individuals who have glimpsed dark secrets or who can peer into the future. Sometimes these are villains, but most often they are following some agenda of their own that is unwholesome if not wholly evil. The NPCs don't have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could quickly fill in what's missing. I'll post a few examples. (These may or may not have drawn some inspiration from these tables and these tables.)"
Myrta,Female Human Crone," Myrta learned her craft from a half-elf witch who came to her aid after she was evicted following the death of her fourth husband. This cackling old crone saved Myrta and her young daughter from a beggarly life, teaching them spells that gave them the power to manipulate men's minds and the forces of nature. Since being chased from town after a few short years of scrounging in the allies, Myrta's made a cozy little lair for herself and her grumpy familiar Ormund the Owl in a cave in the swamp. She's a tough old bird, and she'll happily mix up a poison or curse an item for you in exchange for a few silvers. Her mistress told her about the staff of Hecate, the first witch, and Myrta's been gingerly probing for lore relating to the staff ever since. She's currently mixing up a terrible poison made from blindworm's sting, dryad's thorn, and stirge's foot. Who the poison is intended for is anyone's guess..."
Marta,Female Human Enchantress," Marta is the witch Myrta's beautiful daughter by her second husband, and she learned the craft as a teenager on the streets from her mother. Marta left her mother's tutelage to marry some handsome lord, but he died under mysterious circumstances. When suspicion turned on Marta she fled to the mountains where she lives, conducting seances, reading the palms of travelers, and seeking the soul of her dead husband. Her familiar is a talkative snake named Hiss-Fiss, and her other companion in the mountains is a giant bat named Hipp-Fipp, whom she rides to and from the valley to her hidden lair. Marta has a nervous twittering laughter that shakes her pleasant features in an unpleasant way. She also has a real talent for love potions. Most men who drink these potions fall in love with Marta herself, but that works for her. She enjoys taking new lovers. She also enjoys casting old lovers from her mountaintop home when she's done with them."
Morta,Female Half-Elf Bogwitch," Morta is the most mysterious member of the coven. She's half-elven with a very unfortunate wart on her nose. She's quite good at preparing alchemical concoctions, from magical cure-alls to pyrophoric substances. She lives on an island in the swamp and transforms into an owl to get from place-to-place. If you let on that you know magic, she'll pick your brain for ritual lore before letting you go. Once she let's you go, there's a good chance she's going to hunt you down with her bow and her spear. If you get far enough away, she'll transform into a horned owl and track you down. She consorts with a gleeful fire elemental familiar who delights in burning things and whom Morta is constantly trying to restrain as she prefers to kill things herself. Morta delights in the thrill of the chase and the adrenaline rush of making the kill to end a successful hunt."
Laki,Female Human Shadowseer," Old Laki is a bent-backed creature of routine who knows the most unexpected things. Every morning, she rises to a cup of tea and dried fish before her morning walk amongst the beaches and meadows of the rugged coastland. Hobbling along with her crooked cane, she collects bits of driftwood, grasses, herbs, and shells for her fires. She sleeps the afternoon away under the watchful gaze of her raven, and receives guests in evening. All through the night, she prays to her dragon gods and works her spells, divining answers to her guests' questions by interpreting the shadows the flames cast on her tent walls."
Margy the White,Female Human Fortune Teller," Robed in black with dark brown hair and tan skin, one may ask why is she called Margy the White? This sturdy middle-aged woman offers readings in her kitchen, during which her voice deepens and her face takes on a ghostly pallor. The local priest has been ranting about Margy being a fraud for decades, but that never seemed to bother Margy. She keeps offering to do a reading for a silver to any who ask and who have good manners."
Glyddon Silverstrings,Male Half-Elf Singer," Glyddon Silverstrings has a handsome face and a golden voice and a pitch-perfect harp. He has recently been wandering the villages of the Borderlands singing for his supper and offering simple healing as his meager skills allow. Once in a while, he has had dreams that offer him glimpses of the future, including foreseeing his own mother's death while a youth in Brightharbor. After she died, he has been an unsettled rascal, never staying in one town for long. Some say he is wanted for the murder of a Southron merchant prince whom he tried to warn about his enemies' plans."
Deepbrother Harridan,Male Human Prophet," A gaunt priest of the Sea Queen, Deepbrother Harridan preaches her dire message of darkness and suffocation for those who do not submit to her will. Harridan himself was the sole survivor of a terrible shipwreck as a young lad. So moved by his luck, he pledged himself as a deepbrother of the Sea Queen, claiming to have received visions of her plans when his lungs were filled with seawater. He has ""drowned"" himself dozens of times since, taking on seawater and asking that his assistants revive him. Recently, he has predicted a black vengeance will rise from the sea to consume those in the city who refuse to renounce their devotion to the Light."
Borovurnum Jurtha,Female Human Sailor," On the languorous and rain-soaked coastlines there is a rowboat tied to a rotting pier somewhere. On this rowboat is Borovurnum, never tired, never hungry, with fire behind her huge pupils and teeth and deep blue tattoos of wide-eyed snakes up and down her muscled arms. She will row you to the nearest fishing hamlet, clam shack, or charcoal-burner's hut for only some conversation in exchange; and during the journey she will offer you to smoke from her pipe. If you interest her sufficiently with information—and, more importantly, manage to draw a mouthful of smoke from the pipe—then she will regard you highly and pleasantly, offering to row you anywhere you wish or could possibly imagine. However you will smell of, and constantly spit up, liquid smoke and heatless fire for a few days afterwards. Further, you will always hear the slight splashing of oars on water from inside your head, your appetite will be subdued and then all at once entirely gone, your eyes will feel hot and swollen."
Malfra,Female Human Enchantress," Ever since Malfra was born, she felt different from the others living in the small hamlet. Her natural magical talents made her feel like an outcast. As a young woman she met her one true love. He was a soulmate: finally someone with whom she could share her gift of magic. One day, he gave her the most beautiful flower she had ever seen as a token of their love. When their relationship ended on his behalf, Malfra turned bitter. She grew envious of other young maidens who were happy with their lovers. Fleeing from her home and retreating into the neighboring woods, she set out to destroy their happiness. When young couples wander too close to her confines, she enchants the young maiden in love and turns her into a bird, to be locked into a cage at her hovel. Only the flower that reminds her of her long lost love will break the spell."
Norgith the phasing,Male githzerai wanderer," Norgith is a tall, gaunt, hooded figure, always wandering through dark woods or climbing distant mountains, though sometimes he is seen passing through alleyways in bustling cities. Little is known about him, but whenever he is encountered, he is amicable, though impatient. He seems to know everything, and has an answer to every question, but he always speaks enigmatically, and also always claims only to have a few moments to talk. When people try to find him again, even moments later he is gone. No one ever sees him coming, and no one sees him leave. It is said that he phases across time and space, observing the world, but not staying in any one place for long, which is how he gained his knowledge."
Giddy Cremm,Female Half-Orc Suntouched Cragwitch," She clings to the boulders and cliffs of her mountain home with hooks made from steel, woven through her fingers and along her arms with lengths of braided leather, hemp and hair. She wears the sun as a cloak, the wind as a bonnett, the sky as a dress. Her laughs (and her deep, unsettling coughs) echo for improbable distances, and it's always wise to make camp when you hear them, and soon; should there be a pot of something tasty awaiting her when she comes calling, she might be willing to overlook a trespasser on her land."
Marin of the Lupines,Female Human Oracle," She lives in a sturdy cabin, tucked between two boulders on the edge of the wood, where the tall trees give way to to undergrowth and wildflowers. During the long springs and summers and autumns, she can be found wandering the the threshold - the divide, she calls it - harvesting the few Lupines that stray under the shade of the foliage. These, she says, grow with the shadow in them. She boils them in springwater and honeycomb, and as she whispers her hidden words, the bees from the meadow crawl through her knotted hair and across the glassy mirrors of her sightless eyes. Those who watch find it unnerving, but the wise know that the bees keep secrets."
Twisted Tether,Awakened," She loves questions. Her only request for repayment is 'to discover something that she has not before'. This can be a song, a riddle or simply showing her things she has not seen - be that with books, paintings, casting illusions or virtually anything else. The more impressed she is with this information or story the more forthcoming she is with answers to any questions. As she is well past three thousand years old so finding something 'new' can be very challenging - though it is suspected she 'pretends' to be surprised &/or delighted to nearly any good company. She loves to share her ideas with those she enjoys and it helps her to pass the nearly endless time that waits before her."
Throne of The Harvürdium Kingdoms,at all costs," To this day this wonderful throne sits alone within a mighty (albeit crumbling) castle, long abandoned in the middle of a ruined empire. To any who seek its hard knowledge, bitter wisdom and face-peeling sarcasm, the way is easily discovered."
Gaglagabablagubb,clear thinking," Seekers that go to this talkative blob of mouths & eyes can get vast, complex and insanity-inducing answers to so nearly any question. Though admittedly, one has to not only keep their sanity but also avoid being eaten throughout the conversation - some habits are hard to break. Clever people bring along at least enough snacks to pre-occupy this creature until any would-be questioning is done."
Ventelusall,Reincarnated, Centuries ago legend speaks of a great bard asking a powerful green dragon: 'what is treasure?' Much to her surprise she could not answer as she really did not know. Why was something valuable? What had true enduring value? How could one attain the most or all of these Eternal Goods... whatever they were? She became rather flummoxed for at least a few centuries.
Garian,Male Elven Researcher," Seers: Othelius is a half-lich. He and his partner Garian were the victims of an unfortunate experiment in ascending to lichdom via an artificial, true-neutral-aligned phylacterial ritual. Othelius is now effectively immortal, but must be constantly moisturized by an external source. He normally resembles a healthy, if elderly, elven man, but shrivels and mummifies within a few hours if not properly hydrated. Othelius can passively anticipate many possible futures, and can give general predictions as to the way things will be in the next several weeks or months. He doesn't do long-term prophesying. Garian is a half-lich. He and his partner Othelius were the victims of an unfortunate experiment in ascending to lichdom via an artificial, true-neutral-aligned phylacterial ritual. Garian, too, is effectively immortal, but must remain in an unnaturally dry environment or his body will rapidly putrefy and decay. His prophecies are of the more traditional kind - from time to time, he'll be inspired to write poems or songs that cryptically foreshadow events several years or decades in the future."
Roland Roggeveen,Male Elf Farmer," A tall golden-eyed elf with hair the color of grain. He often wears a tan tunic, and grey overalls. He has a small farm of his own, and lives there alone. In the small windmill on his farm he practices his magic, and makes many things for his plants, magical fertilizers to cause plants to grow in wonderful and strange ways, mulches that push out weeds, and protect the soil, and sprays to dissuade the presence of vermin, and insects in his crops. He will sell these to anyone who can show a good interest in plants."
Clara Sheehy,Female Half-Elf Phytomancer," A soft spoken and kind woman. Her hair is bright white with tinges of red, and green. She mostly keeps to herself, preferring the company of the magical plants that she creates. Her home is a small cottage with sunflowers and rosebushes growing around its edges, and many raised gardens scattered around it. She can be quite shy around new people to the point of misdirecting them away from her cottage with elaborate illusions. When she is outside her house she usually wears a large straw sun hat with a white ribbon on its top."
Hubert Donnelly,Male Leprechaun Shopkeeper," A brown eyed leprechaun who wears a green tunic, and brown overalls. He manages his own shop, and sells various magical trinkets as well as gardening supplies. A few of his own gardening tools are quite magical. He acts kind to those that enter his shop casually, but when someone that has a great need for something enters his shop he will do whatever he can to trade them what they want at the cost of something they have great sentimental value in. He can be very mischievous, and even taunting to those that have traded something to him that the once greatly adored, and will not easily trade it back to them."
Gerhard Katirci,Male Ogre Geomancer," A large ogre with dark grey skin, and piercing green eyes and a set of spectacles. He speaks very intelligently, but has issues with using profanity often. He wears a dense, grey, woolen shirt, and tan overalls. He works in mines to prevent their collapse, and to locate the ore or gemstones in them. Often he uses his own strength to amend issues in the construction of a mine. He respects the earth and stone of the mines he works in, and can speak to it in a way to find the best way to reinforce it."
Haukvir,Male Dwarven Watcher," A quiet dwarf who lives in the ruins of a long-forgotten temple. His beard is glossy and black, as are his eyes. When he speaks, he speaks with many voices, in many accents, and none of them are Dwarvish."
"Bartholomew the Great and Powerful, First of His Name, Whose Arts Rattle the Vaults of Heaven",Male Half-elf Charlatan," Bartholomew (or, to his friends and/or paramours, Tol) is a lanky, somewhat frazzled half-elf with a shock of red hair. 'Shock' is an appropriate word; this stage magician uses what small sorcerous talents he has to swindle away the money of every backwoods family and small-town bumpkin from here to the Whitespire Mountains. Make no mistake, though: he might be terrible at performing magic, but he is a prodigy at summoning the eldritch horrors and assorted unsavory creatures that slaughter any who would turn him in to the authorities."
"Who are these demonologists, shadowhunters, crusaders, and exorcists?","The old priest winks, drains his cup of wine, and spryly hops off his bar stool. ""Come on,"" he smiles, ""if we go now, I can get you in and out of the temple's crypt before the midnight devotions begin."""," Last week, we made some fiendish villains, so it seems fitting that we collect some NPCs who oppose such beings. These NPCs could run the gamut from eager allies to dangerous foils, but they should not be sinister on all accounts (to distinguish them from villains). The NPCs don't have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could quickly fill in what's missing. I'll post a few examples."
Brother Calymus,Male Human Scholar," A priest of the First Order of the Light, Brother Calymus is a spry, balding old man who's been wandering the world for half a century, seeking out ghosts, survivor's of near-death experiences, and other strange phenomenon attributed to the Spirit Realm. He's written two popular books on the topic and is happy to talk at length about the mysteries of death, especially over a cup of strong red wine. Whenever you run into Brother Calymus in a tavern or brothel, he's bound to know where some dark presence is lurking nearby in the world (and likely, he's eager to investigate once he finds the right help)."
Sir Harrisen Figg,Male Human Knight," Tall and handsome with long dark hair and neatly-trimmed mustaches, Sir Harrisen was the heir of House Figg, but after the strange circumstances of the death of his sister, he renounced his inheritance and left his family to join the Watcher's Swords, pledging his life to hunting down enemies of the Moon Maiden's church. Figg has been particularly prolific in seeking out and destroying demons who reveal themselves in the world. He carries an ancestral sword that had been called Greatknife which he has renamed Fiendbane. When you meet him, you'll find he's a bit stiff, but he means well."
Sister Dierdre,Female Human Priestess," Sister Dierdre's wide green eyes smile, despite a sadness lingering about her young face. She often fiddles with her long blonde braid when she speaks, especially if asked about her past. Dierdre was the promiscuous daughter of a high-ranking soldier, who couldn't seem to keep herself out of trouble, so her father sent her away to join the Second Order of the Light. She always approached ghosts and demons with fascination and, of late, has discovered her own talent as a medium between the world and the Spirit Realm."
Lady Joenna Longfisk,Female Human Knight," Clad in mail and leather, Lady Joenna Longfisk is a tall maid with short-cropped auburn hair. She took up the sword against her father's wishes, following her young liege lord to battle in his fateful campaign against the Ice Clans. The campaign was largely successful, save the death of her liege lord. Too proud to return home, Lady Joenna pledged her sword in the service of the Storm King's Temple of Winter. Never at home among the men of the temple guard, a powerful priestess who had befriended her sent Lady Joenna back among the lands of the Ice Clans to search for an ancient shrine to the Storm King that's been lost for centuries."
Goodson Harbert,Male Human Exorcist," With a missing eye and a wooden leg, Goodson Harbert cuts an intimidating figure, especially for a priest. He reeks of booze and speaks in a growl, but he's a warm soul beneath the gruff exterior. People say Harbert has been to the Hells and back, and no one who sees him would dare question that rumor. He's never risen high among the Goodsons of the Traveler, but he is respected by all within the church's hierarchy. If you have to face a demon, a ghost, or a questionably-sourced cask of ale, you'll want Harbert's hatchet and his box of potions and powders at your side."
Bifgard Stonehouse,Male Dwarf Crusader," His flame-orange beard a shaggy tangle, Bifgard Stonehouse is quick to draw his axe at the first whiff of goblins, ghosts, and wights. For years, he has been working in stages to clear the ancient dwarf-hold of Silverden of goblins and undead almost single-handedly. He comes down from the mountains twice a year to re-supply his camp and make half-hearted attempts at recruiting some help in his task. Bifgard speaks very little until he's had a few ales, and then he speaks too much–becoming angry with himself (and anyone around him) whenever he lets slip one of Silverden's secrets, setting himself to perform an awful penance to atone to the Great Smith."
Quelma Starcircle,Female High Elf Shadowhunter," Quelma Starcircle remained in the World when the last of her people left centuries past, her task still unfinished. Her brilliant blue eyes are patient and her manner is as soft and straight as her flowing silver-blonde hair. With her sword and her bow, Quelma has dogged the arch-lich Arameedi from one end of the World to the other. She has slain it six times, and six times the lich has risen. Quelma will continue her dangerous game of cat-and-mouse with Arameedi until she finds the hiding place of its phylactery or until it destroys her."
Goran the Grim,Male Human Preacher," A devotee of the Southron pantheon, Goran spends his days preaching the word of the God of Death in the market square (""Prepare! Seek Death on your own terms, lest Trickery guide your path or Ruin take your strength!""). Black-robed, gaunt, and pale with dark circles around his dark eyes, Goran's deep voice booms across the square beseeching all who will listen to make time for meditation on Death every day. Goran also sells a variety of amulets and potions that will ward off the curse of undeath, so that Death may be met peacefully and honorably."
Al-bah Zorimun,Male Human Paladin," Al-bah Zorimun is a broad-shouldered knight who wears light copper scale armor and always carries a wicked scimitar on his left hip and several short spears slung across his back. Zorimun's head is shaved and his mustache is long and waxed, though he often keeps both hidden from the sun with a white cotton cowl has he wanders the desert on his trusted mare. Every sun up and sun down, Zorimun prays to the Sun God asking the First Light and the Last Light to touch his flashing blade that he might strike down the dark followers of the Dead God. Zorimun is quietly going about his bloody work, seeking out the tent-camps and caves where the followers of the Dead God hide."
Inquisitor Marsolis,Female Tiefling Priestess," She tells her guests her name before they see her - Francesca. She lures them into confidence with a voice full of contrite abasement, sexual undertones, knowing humor. She laughs, she cries, she tells them she'll be flogged if she doesn't get the answers she needs. Whatever works. When she can, she walks behind them unseen, the soles of her boots whispering on the flagstones of her clean, spare chambers. Just as with any other tool, she uses violence sparingly and judicially... but first, if nothing else works, she steps from the shadows and pulls the hood from her head. When they see her crimson skin, they begin to scream; when they see the jet black ram's horns that curl from the back of her head and over her shoulders, they begin to confess."
Sir Nicolas of Eastmark,Male Human Sorcerer," Sir Nicolas is a peculiar sort of knight; he doesn't joust, or compete at the sword, or do any number of things that your average everyday knight would do. Instead, he wears finely tailored clothes, tasteful yet expensive jewelry, and personally oversees all of the kingdom's dealings with adventurers and would-be heroes. Having retired from adventuring himself at the ripe old age of 45, his dark hair (with gray wingtips, lovingly maintained) and trained grey eyes are a fixture around the palace. He prefers to do things the easy way, rather than the way that involves copious amounts of explosions, but make no mistake: he isn't called the Mage Knight of Eastmark for no reason."
Dame Elmeara Dragonback,Female Dwarf Paladin," The first impression most people get of Elmeara is her armor: a set of brilliant white enameled plate, which under sunlight shimmers with a faint opalescence. Most trained warriors, sellswords, and hungry bandits scoff at such extravagance; after all, how experienced can one be without any battle damage on one's armor? Unfortunately for them, they are asking the wrong question. The right question: How good does Dame Elmeara have to be to come out of every fight with immaculate armor? The right answer: Very, very good."
"Alexei van Valerya, the White Hat",Male Tiefling Assassin/Guard Captain," Assassination is an art, and a difficult one at that. For every noble who travels in an open carriage through a city filled with tall buildings, there are five more who don't eat their breakfast until their entire court has a bite first. And yet, a select few kingslayers still manage to turn a profit. Alexei van Valerya knows the art of killing important people better than any other bodyguard, mostly because up until a few years ago, he was on the side of the artists. The ex-assassin-turned-security-chief cuts an unassuming figure; at 5'10 he's not the tallest, and at 160 pounds he's not the bulkiest. What he is, is effective. From his swept-back black horns to his toes, Alexei is all business. Tales around the palace say that he personally kills at least one foreign spy before breakfast, and two before lunch. He fights with his bare hands, or with garrote wire, or with long, ten-inch dirks that he wears on his back, and when he does, he is completely silent."
Sygfellow Ottman,Male Dwarf Stonewarden," Sygfellow comes from a long line of stonewardens whose job it is to walk the long paths between the eastern brunmallow and northern grasslands where brigands often lurk seeking easy prey, or roaming barbarians encroach. Because of the fact that he's constantly on the move going to town to hamlet, he has an intimate knowledge of the inhabitants of each and is often sought out for news and tales and, when the wine is particularly fine, a song. Syg is the fifth generation of his family yo take on the stonewarden mantle. Syg stands four feet, nine inches tall and has long brown hair and amber eyes. Syg is so used to traveling the long trade roads that he travels quite light and can live fairly easily off of what the land provides. He knows every nook on the forest's edge where he can find safe respite and where to find the best fish and game. He's seen these roads to often and knows the paths so well, that he can smell when something is amiss. You'll know him by his rough green cloak and his compact yew bow that carries with him, and if he asks you your business, you'd do well to answer wisely. Sygfellow does not suffer fools kindly."
"Sir Aaron Irkell, the Beacon's Light",Male Human Paladin/Cleric of Torm," Sir Aaron stands at an average height of just 5'9"". His blonde hair is incredibly short, and he wears long purple robes under a breastplate emblazoned with the seal of Torm. You can find him, more often than not, tending to the wounded Lord's Alliance soldiers in the med tents of Qui. His words are brief and to the point, but he is kind and well-mannered. He heads a church of Torm in the city of Qui called ""The Beacon"" where he teaches mercy, healing and kindness. Those who meet Sir Aaron on the street or in his church will often find him lost in thought, dwelling on those he could not save and praying for those he is still trying to save."
Brother Kiniffer,Male Human Crusader," A paladin of torm and war veteran, he wears a leather armored kilt and a light leather tunic at all times. He has seen more wars and single combat encounters in his life than most can honestly speak of, and its left him a bit crazed or blood lusted, its hard to tell. His eyes are wide, and his head's got patches of hair all about it in between the patches that have either fallen out or been ripped out. He is nearly maniacal in his desire to drive evil from the land and he's happy to engage in long conversations with those who would help him do it. You can find him training with the other brothers of the First Light Monastery, east of the High Forest."
Talal,Male Half-Elf Mystic / con-artist (neutral selfish)," Moral ambiguity personified with sandy blonde hair and a charming smile; a wink of his green eyes invites you into his secret. Most faiths have a secret cabal wherein special rites, prayers, and practices are rarely disclosed to the layman. However as a man of half truths and half lies, Talal can fit in to any one of these. Talal's specialty is knowing where these rituals take place and either owns or at least knows the location of cabalistic items of power.  "
Keandra,Female Tiefling Warlock / demon hunter," Not everyone believes that hunting demons is a fulfilling career path. Thus was the belief of the arch devil Ezatan, who therefore sub-contracted his end of a deal to a young and desperate tiefling girl. Now that she is older, Keandra hunts demons with efficiency and indifference. Having no personal vendetta against the abyssal spawns, she finds no joy ridding the world of their evil. To her, it's just a job."
Balchenod the White,Male Tiefling Investigator," The body was finally still beneath him, but he could feel the blood soaking into his pants. Still, he held the knife, hilt against the body's back, a few more seconds until he was sure it was only his own breath rasping in the dark cellar. ""Balch, you're getting sloppy,"" he muttered to himself as he willed his left hand to release the quarry's horn and slowly withdraw the ten inch dirk. The darkened skin of the tiefling on the floor seemed to go ashy in the inky black pool of its own blood. He'd earned this bounty, but at what cost? Licking his lips unconsciously, he knew the self-flagellation tonight would be particularly intense."
Krind Steeltoe,Male Dwarf Ranger," A long braided brown beard and piercing blue eyes are the first thing you'll notice when see this dwarven ranger. He initially has a gruff demeanor, but becomes friendly enough once you known him for a while. A follower of Marthammor Duin, he aims to explore new lands and protect his fellow travelers and any people who he might meet on the road. Accustomed to hilly terrain and mountains, his recent travels though an unholy mountain pass have led him into combat with wicked undead far too often for his tastes, and he would welcome any help in exterminating this threat to the locals and travellers."
Skrazano,Male Kobold Soldier," This loyal soldier is no ordinary kobold. Although he is at present nothing more than a soldier, he has been handpicked for the elite guard due to his skill and bravery in combat. Through his veins runs a sliver of metallic dragon blood, granting him power beyond that of an ordinary kobold. He is dedicated to his duty and speaks very little. And when he does speak, he speaks softly, barely more than a whisper."
Aurak Gnar,Male Dragonborn Paladin," Aurak Gnar is a 6'8"" golden metallic dragonborn. Wearing shining plate armor, wielding his silver sword and garrisoning his shield. Aurak is stern and outgoing, taking command where possible. He prefers to lead from the front and take a cautious approach to most things. Having survived numerous battles where patience, not the might of a sword arm, was the deciding factor. He is merciful to most beings, believing that everybody has the chance to turn to the light. However he acts without mercy or quarter to beings of evil and those who help them."
Sivak Nala,Female Dragonborn Priestess of Bahamut," Sivak Nala is a fierce silver dragonborn with a height around 6'3"". She wears simple armored robes and wields two short swords. Despite her cold outwards appearance, she is deeply caring for those in need and those who cannot defend themselves from the horrors of the dark. Her shy calm and graceful demeanor do not carry over to those of foul natures, even if they aren't innately evil beings. Driven and focused to the task at hand, Sivak Nala hunts down the dark forces of the world with equal measures of grace and cold malice."
Bozak Rhogar,Male Dragonborn Knight," Bozak Rhogar is large, even for a dragonborn. Standing at a towering 6'11"", and seemingly built out of a bronze wall, Bozak Rhogar is a force to be reckoned with. Known as a dispassionate fellow, Bozak holds no quarter to any who hold themselves outside of the law, or worse, the paths of darkness. Beneath his bronzed exterior lays a heart of, more bronze. Bozak is quiet and pensive, often going hours or even days without speaking. Preferring to instead answer with a nod, grunt, or silver maul."
FlyHandle,Male Aarakocra Mercenary," A member of a radical mercenary guild, FlyHandle speaks very little, takes orders, and has little qualms as long as there is pay. He builds trust with long term contractors, and will slowly open up about his opinions and knowledge. He wears light armor, can class as a barbarian, and prefers spear-like weapons."
Cadrielda Sabreen,Female Human Shopkeeper," The owner of Cadey's Trinkets, an arcane pawn shop carrying a variety of handy gadgets and minor magical items. Her long black curls come nearly to her waist. She wears large round spectacles and walks with a slight slouch, but she is otherwise modestly attractive. Cadrielda is shy and fidgety, and seems to consider interacting with customers to be a necessary evil. She can barely stay afloat because she is always tanking in stray animals. Unknown to most, she was once a druid, but was banished from her circle for dabbling in science, and many of the goods she sells are actually of her own invention."
Kaivoth the Tall,Male Half-orc Hunter," A massive, late middle-aged half-orc with scarred gray skin. He lives as a hunter and adventurer, and is known to be a man of very few words. He carries a locket with a tiny portrait in it, but refuses to say who is pictured there, and worships an obscure dwarvish deity but refuses to say why. Though he normally works solo, a couple rounds of ale might convince him to work alongside the party."
Lazloch Sylveron,"Female Half-elf ""Bounty Hunter"""," An orphaned teenage tomboy living in the slums of a large city. She was once a skilled pick-pocket, but after reading a book by the philosopher Picurales, she underwent a kind of conversion and decided to use her talents for good. Now she is determined to become the world's most famous bounty hunter. She cuts her blonde hair boyishly short and dresses entirely in black leather, as this is what she imagines a bounty hunter is supposed to look like. If pressed, she will insist that she is a full-blooded elf, though she obviously has some human ancestry."
Name Unknown,Male Human Monk," A monk of St Cuthbert, he took a vow of silence at the age of 10. He has yet to speak and is reaching into his 70's. With his ageless body achieved at 10 he has not aged a bit. He spends his life guiding those who are lost in the woods near his Monastery to safety."
Stakta 'Whistletongue',Female Dragonborn(Brass) Captain of the Guard," Stakta spent many a year as a thief, working in the underbelly of the city. One day she was given a job to assassinate a cleric of Bahamut. Not knowing this clerics strength, and falsely assuming in his age he was feeble and unable to defend himself she took a direct approach. She was swiftly beaten, and while lieing near death on the street the cleric began to heal her. Even though not a minute earlier she had tried to take his life, he was ensuring her survival. Thus began her repentance, and her worship of Bahamut."
Vendrick 'Wildheart',Female Gnome Bloodhunter," A powerful bloodhunter, her first kill at the age of 12 she specializes in wielding weapons of uncommonly large size for her race. Constantly under the effects of an illusion she appears before her prey as an innocent human child. She preys specifically on demons, or cursed that hold weapons or items of sentience, even if they've no other power to speak of. She's slowly expanding her circle of 'friends'."
"Torbarth ""the Heavy Handed""",Male Half-Orc Paladin," Among paladins, Torbarth has become a bit of a laughing stock. His approach to rooting out evil and corruption is ask those under scrutiny bluntly: ""do you serve the forces of order and goodness?"" In the case of a no, or an unconvincing response, Torbarth has been known to lurk just over the shoulder of the person in question, making note of their every decision. He has been known to keep this up for upwards of a fortnight before making his final judgement and moving on."
Mill Burray,Male Human Exorcist," Genial and entirely average looking, Mill Burray makes a career of exorcising ghosts. His ""work"" uniform consists of an off-white jumpsuit, a backpack overflowing with dubious looking equipment, and his trusty ghost-dowsing rod. With proper payment delivered half on commission and half on completion, Mill will dowse any haunted site for supernatural entities, and capture them in spirit proof vessels using any number of appropriate rituals or techniques."
"Mekaela ""the Unremarkable""",Female Elf Demonologist," Although nobody could tell you precisely what she looks like, Mekaela has built quite the reputation as a bottomless font of knowledge on demons and the abyss. If asked, she politely diverts any questions about her uncannily unremarkable appearance by saying ""it's just a precaution, strictly necessary in this line of work."" Often the only thing that Mekaela will ask in exchange for a bit of information on demons - or any demon in particular - is that her client keep her informed of any new relevant knowledge they gain. That, and that they spread word of her services, as she is so unremarkable it is understandably hard to do much networking in person."
Brad the Bard,Male Human Troubadour, A prancing ponce whose lyrical beauty is beyond compare But for the nonce let's dwell on his quest for booty so rare His lust for princesses and queens and such ladies fair Landed him in prison five years ago - he yet rots in there!
Ebeneezer Meckinschmit,Male Gnome Mad Traveling Wizard," An old mad mage with a crazy accent. He travels in a wagon that looks splashed in dozens of paints, The wagon can magically open up on the side to create a market stall, complete with counter and a small set of stairs. Ebeneezer sells magical items, but always with a twist. Example: ring of detect fire, range: touch. He travels all across the land, and his wagon will occasionally shoot out fireworks."
Wine Barrelshy,Male Human Politician," A portly man with a knack for wining and dining with all of the city-elite. He is excellent at making friends and connecting people with other people. Well-known for solving the diplomatic standoff between a raven, four rival blacksmiths, and a large kettle of mutton stew. Despite his schmoozing, he has never tasted alcohol. He always acts like he is drinking it before pouring it discretely down his maroon-colored sleeves."
Elyss Iland,Female Elf Recordkeeper," Handles the welcoming of all newcomers to the Elvish lands and ensures that documentation is in order. Keeps meticulous records to the point of insanity, ie. Jerome's family biscuit recipe and Thurn's desire to have tree-limbs for arms. She is the source of the best gossip due to the collision of many backgrounds and personalities. Will often ""strongly advise"" that newcomers offer gratuity in the form of spoons - she has quite the collection."
Thall'um Pineleg,Male Dwarf Craftsman," Injured in the dwarven mines at a young age, Thall'um has permanent need for a wooden crutch. One end of his crutch is functional as a pickaxe, so he leans against the rock and picks with one arm. He is ambidextrous and a lover of symmetry; he will mine with both arms equally so as not to be disproportionate. His companion is a small, mute canary."
Ronny Jainclout,Male Human Weather-Enthusiast," Born in a heavy rainstorm, Ronny has always loved the mightiest of Nature's squalls. Wears a tiny kettle on the top of his hat to collect rainwater - a drink he finds superior to all else. Terrible at small-talk because his idea of riveting conversation is what other people consider dull. Spends hours at a time staring longingly up at the sky before hastily scrawling out inaccurate weather predictions."
Q,"The crow may fly but does not speak, No secrets pour from silent beak..."""," Has an iron medieval plague-mask attached to his face, covering up long scars and awful burns - payment for committing arson. Can only speak in sing-songy rhymes: Plagued with bouts of fear and dementia and will often sit down and rock himself gently until his sanity is restored. Has acute memory loss which makes him a terrible candidate for acting. Instead, he helps the other entertainers in his troupe with various tasks and chores."
Reepa Featherlite,Female Elf Repossession Agent," A discrete ""Repo-Woman"" who reacquires goods through silent thievery. Often employed by the self-righteous elitists who tell long-winded stories of how they gained their wealth. If objects were gained illegally, she...takes the burden off their weak shoulders. She steals from the rich and gives to herself. It's the thought that counts after all, right? Along with her big-ticket items, she always tries to repossess sewing materials for her up-and-coming vintage money-purse business, ""Featherlite Purses: So light you won't even know it's there!"""
Rodencha Kinsly,Female Human Baker," Absolutely LOVES cheese; can't get enough of the stuff. Incorporates it into nearly all of her recipes including apple pies, salads, and salmon bake. Is generally shy & timid. She doesn't like attention and will scurry away at the first sign of social interaction. Quite wary of wizards and magic-dealers in particular. Especially after she was inadvertently part of a wizard's mind-swap experiments. In other news, the experiment may have been partially successful and she may think that she's a mouse."
The Amazing Prosto!,Male Human Magician," Wanders between towns and shares his magical talents with the world. His interest in magic peaked when his uncle pulled a coin from behind his ear. How did he do that?! Has a slight speech impediment, but it does not detract from his charismatic approach to wowing his audience with doves, rabbits, and paper bouquets. He humbly requests that parents refrain from speaking during his performances, since the reason of adults will ruin the experience for his target audience."
Gurglak Goggleschmitt,Male Orc Artificer, Use hands. Smash big stuff. Make small stuff from big stuff crumbs. Gurglak happy. Smash small stuff. Hands too big. Can't make no more stuff. Gurglak sad. Find new stuff.
Ogrim Battlestroke,Male Dwarf Mercenary," Stereotypical warrior dwarf complete with expertly-forged armor and fearsome warhammer. Offers his services to all armies, with his preference being exotic and distant lands. Wakes up before sunrise on the day of battle, breaks out his canvas, and paints stunningly-detailed landscapes of the scene prior to being forever marred by blood and destruction. He sends these paintings back to his mother who thinks that he is merely a world-traveler who wishes to share his journeys with his only family."
Golly the Gambibbler,Male Human Linthijaz," Golly galumphs presently board he once brillig, tromping on loofus made twisty by twill, to trill at a boohome for russets and dogherous burbles."
Russel Folnhir,Male Dragonborn Chef," Large among the largest of Dragonborn, mightier than warriors, quicker than thieves, and smarter than scholars, Russel's ambitions lie solidly in the kitchen. He's often questioned about his peculiar life, that of choosing to be a chef rather than act on what appear to be a divine set of natural talents and opportunities. Russel is better than most at what he tries, but does not care to do anything but cook. He makes a decent sum from his job at a small town's community mess hall, though a lot of his work is done for free out of the love of doing it. Has a halfling wife named Margaret, who works part time as a lumberjack."
Sifvilgyplidiven the Unpronounceable,Male Human-ish Wizard," Sifvilgyplidiven doesn't remember much of his parents, Tyghroiulmborttsmn and Yyyalianmmhjahtyrhba, but knows that his name has some greater meaning. He lives a simple life in an underground home beneath his pet project, a self-sufficient haberdashery catering mainly to the sale of hats. Despite being a wizard he is unable to do much beyond basic tricks, but knows more about obscure rituals and spells than anyone. He will teach travelers these things, but only if they can pronounce his name. Those who succeed also get a discount on hats."
John Smith,Male Human Commoner," John constantly feels like the background character of a good book. His best friends Rydgar and Thorgrin the God Slayer seem exciting, living adventurous lives. In comparison, he's content with the simple 9-5 bustle of his medium sized town, his average home, and his hobbies. He collects coins of historical value, and has a large collection that he's quite proud of. John is so normal that he almost feels out of place. But then, how normal can he be? If normal is a barbarian devil killer, then isn't John abnormal? But that doesn't seem right. He is normal, it's the world that's strange! John wrestles with these thoughts often."
Mepis Soutan,Female Half-Elf Journalist," Journalism isn't exactly the most respected career paths in the world, but it's exciting. Mepis got her start writing for The Copper Pape writing about the unimportant nonsense of small town life such as which blacksmith was hammering who's codpieces. She caught a big break after securing an exclusive interview with Pelor, somewhat breaching her ethics policies by bribing him with the famous muffins of a local chef Russel Folnhir. She's now a columnist for The Astral Quill, and has been trying to secure an interview with someone that will take her career to the next level."
Eubor Westmin,Undead Arms Dealer," Eubor was once a person of some description, turned undead by some necromancer of some other description. He doesn't care for the particulars. Upon being raised, Eubor found that being an undead minion wasn't for him so he left to pursue other options. He now makes a living by taking weapons from dungeons, battlefields, etc and selling them. It's not a noble living, nor a living at all for Eubor, but it occupies eternity."
Yulmon Taed,Male Human Author," Yulmon occupies his time writing short stories, as well as occasional re-imaginings of folklore. His first book, The Boy and the Sweet +4 Shortsword was a big hit, giving him the fanbase to leave his miserable job as a haberdasher and write full time. He mainly sells his stories to The Astral Quill. Right now he's working on his first novel, A Game of Fancy Chairs."
Hirai Doyle,Male Child Detective?," Hirai is a child who calls himself a detective, and seems to possess intelligence and skills unlike any child should have. He also looks remarkably similar to a teenage detective from the area who went missing the same day the boy appeared, though with some glasses. This is of course just a coincidence, obviously. He frequently gets into dangerous situations, left to save the day using various gadgets created for him by his elderly gnome friend, Instructor Christie Herschel."
Daven Frealor,Male Human Actor," Daven is an actor, that much is simple. His real last name is Radtaie, but he changed it as there was already an actor named Daven Radtaie and there are rules to this business. He's considered semi-famous, holding a lot of minor roles in the big plays and some major roles in the smaller ones. His upcoming gig, standing in for a larger actor who quit acting to pursue a career in haberdashing, could be what he needs to break into the big leagues. His acting's fine, but he's just a bit too dramatic at times. If you want more detail, Mepis Soutan once reviewed his performance in Undeath of a Salesman."
Dot,Male and Female Human Twins," Pip and Dot are male and female, respectfully, and are identical twins. As kids it was cute, but as they grew older their interests diverged and now they just get on each other's nerves. Pip is an enchanter, and Dot is a ranger. Both are highly respected by those around them, and both are proper and well mannered. Put them together and they argue like children. Without having talked to each other in years, they each met and married one of a set of twins, Tim and Tammy, with similar circumstances and none of the four knowing anything about the situation. Coincidentally, Pip and Dot's older brother Jon is good friends with Tim and Tammy's older sister Jane, having met outside the situation. That first family reunion was a confusing one."
Bryce Bladewalker,Male. Human druid. Serial Killer.," Favourite saying: The only thing I'll trust a woman to do is stay dead. Personality: A real go-getter, he can't stand laziness. Alcoholic. Widowed. Important memories: His wife, leaving him for a wizard whose every need was attended by magical servants. Strangling that wizard with his bear hands. An alcohol-fuelled haze of pain and regret."
Laura Midsommer,Female Human Basket-weaver," She sits outside on clear days, weaving. With subtle yet somehow striking auburn hair, and a face rounded but fine. ""The Jewel of the town"" she was described. She is however as cold to others as the north wind."
Stonebeard,Male Dwarf Mason," ""Stonebeard"" not going by his birth name due to a contempt for his father who is considered ""A lousy drunkard"" even among dwarfs. Due to this he has a unusual fondness of ""family values"" and has a strong moral code. He travels around the human cities offering his extensive knowledge on stonework."
Antonio Pyre,Male Human Acolyte," Acolytes are often seen as unsociable to regular folk. Antonio is a man of common tastes, which has left him unable to gain higher status in his church. He would spend his evenings drinking and whoring. His sins should not be taken for complacency in religion, in his sinful conquests he would take the lowest of the low into the arms of god."
Evylin Silverwind,Female Elf(?) Adviser-to-the-king," A beautiful elf with silver hair flowing to her ankles. She is rarely seen far from the king, the few that have spoken too her see her as unusual. She is mostly unversed in human culture, unusual for anyone living in the heart of a human city."
Stron Leather-Arm,Male Half-Orc Butcher," Stron is a brazen fellow, harsh of word and sharp of tongue. Many distrust him as a half-orc, his profession does not help public opinion. While many butchers do not care much for the final product, Stron is a true gourmet, not cut of meat is too fine for his taste. He shares this only with his more friendly customers."
Sapphire,Female Human Prostitute/Spy," Many prostitutes in the slums are driven to it by lack of options. Sapphire however has carved her own path from day one, she was a sharp young lady, too good for a brothel, but she was happy with it. After a few years, she knew how eager men (and some women) were to spill their guts. The lesson Sapphire learned was playing with politics was much more profitable."
Marrak Sunstone,Male Human Arena-Fighter," A man skilled in the martial arts is not uncommon, but one that can work a crowd so well is. A strong distinguished jawline and an even stronger voice. He is known for fighting with a falchion and sling, rather than the more common sword and shield."
Biri Bluebarrel,Female Halfling Brewer," From a long line of famous brewers, Biri is no less skilled. The fine blue-tinted ale her family is named for however is like poison to her tongue. Biri is cursed to never enjoy her gifts. She is loved by many, and despite not drinking makes any party lively."
Thalar Yet,Female Dragonborn Wandering Teacher," Thalar always found an odd love of humans, interested in their quarrels and struggles. She alone has become almost a legend travelling from village to village, every one left better off for it. She was taught well while young possessing great knowledge in healing, agriculture and combat. Thalar's love of humans even lead to her discarding the name of her clan for a name that humans found easier to say."
Skarrak Sunlight,Male Tiefling Priest," Masochist, is the one word that comes to mind when people speak of Skarrak. He is hated for his appearance, yet he retains a paragon of honor, virtue and piety. Through great pain he has removed his horns, over years cut away his tail. A man wounded in mind, some pity him above all others. (Phew 10, I should probably stop now)"
Sarim Marshwalker,Male Half-Orc Ranger," Lives on the edge of the swamplands, and will act as a guide for any who can pay a fair tariff. Though outwardly gruff, he can be fairly pleasant. That is, unless you ask about his scars... The last group to pass that way still haven't been found."
Ravn Erickson,Male Human Bard," Old man Ravn has a tale for every night of the year, and knows more songs than there are stars in the sky. He wonders the northlands in search of heroes and adventurers to question, and will happily allow a road-weary party to share his fire in exchange for their story. His sage advice has more than once saved kingdoms from collapse, and is a welcome guest at any lord's dwelling."
Winna,Female Human Barmaid," Though she seems dim at first, young Winna is as sharp as a razor. She knows all the comings and goings in town, and rumour has it she knows the leaders of the Thieves Guild. Woe betide any who would raise a hand to her."
Valdi Galanodel,Female Elf Ranger," A strong but paranoid leader, Valdi is fiercely protective of both her land and her kin. She views outsiders with vehement disdain, and rarely allows trespassers on her land to pass unchallenged. Her pride has led to friction with the nearby human and dwarf settlements, and both are becoming increasingly concerned by her readiness to slay any who put so much as a toe across her borders."
Lord Kristian Fiermann,Male Human Lord," As corrupt as they come, Lord Fiermann sees himself a strong and capable man, though in fact his strength comes from his wife and her family, whose ambition far outstrips his. He frequently raises taxes to support his wife's ""projects"", and turns a blind eye to the numerous missing villagers who seem to wind up in his dungeons. He won't have anything to do with dark magic, though it is clear his wife is secretly attempting to summon demons to further her own goals."
Jackson Stern,Male Human Miscreant," Everyone in town knows Jackson, forever in trouble with the Town Guard. He's a troubled boy, and his petty crimes are going to see him hung. He strives to be the best thief this side of the Eastern Sea, but is so clumsy he mostly ends up causing minor damage to properties instead, before failing to steal anything before the Town Guard turns up to drag him back to the cell in the barracks. They joke he should be paying them rent."
Father Osmund,Male Human Cleric (War Domain)," Old Father Osmund is a devout racist. Though he outwardly strives to ""better the world"", he is zealous to the point of fanaticism. He can be found wherever there is a human lord looking to stamp out a local non-human community, or otherwise spends his time persecuting non-human members of society. He seeds rumours, sometimes even planting incriminating evidence in dwellings, before offering to be the one to deal with them once the mob is roused."
Tess D'Orvic,Female Human Sorcerer," Tess is the epitome of bad luck. Though she is one of the strongest sorcerers in the land, her art rarely manifests itself in the way she intends. She's on the run now, after that time she agreed to help deal with a ghost in the town cemetery, only to accidentally disturb all the other resting souls into haunting the town. When she reported to the council, so deep was her anxiety that her wild magic flared once again, and now none of them can talk, except to make farm animal noises. The price on her head is quite large these days."
Asher,Male Human Rogue," No job is too grim for Asher - for the right price he'll do almost anything. And he is good at what he does. Once the fee is paid, you won't see him again until the job is done. Don't expect him to stay quiet about it though. A few ales and he'll tell anyone anything."
Kydd,Female(?) Human(?) Child(?)," No-one knows anything about Kydd's origins. She is only ever seen before a town suffers a cataclysmic event, and stories of her appearances go back centuries. There have only been two occasions where she has spoken, and the persons to which she spoke became heroes of legend. No town has ever survived longer than 24 hours after she appears there. Perhaps she is the cause, or merely a warning?"
Estragon Morrins,Mysterious Gnome Merchant, A middle-aged man who feigns madness and sells an incredibly powerful poison known to cause septicemia which is in fact ditchwater.
Old Greg,Generic Old Guy," Greg is a generic old guy who sits in the corner of the tavern and occasionally shouts 'Lord Sprinkleton? Ah, not many people know the story of Lord Sprinkleton these days'. Unfortunately, he doesn't know all that much. He will only ever recount his childhood on the farm and explain vaguely relevant elven and dwarfish conspiracies because he is violently racist."
Rod Osmington,Angry Merchant," Rod has just escaped a troubled relationship with his father, in which his father decided to give him his full inheritance in chickens and land. Rod is now seeking people who will trade chickens for chicken food or actual money, and is therefore first seen leading thirty chickens or so. He does not like talking about it and will be gruff to any that ask why he has so many chickens."
John the cat,A Cat," John is a cat, who will follow the party around. Flip a coin: Heads, he's the familiar of a suitably powerful wizard. Tails, he's literally just a cat. He is exceptionally stupid, and will often run off to stupid places. If the party decides to follow him around, he will consistently get them into trouble by biting important people, running away to secret bandit hideouts, and attacking the wizard's spellbook."
Triggart Darkfeather,"Tengu, Merchant"," I dont have time to do the Ten but Ill toss a few in here. Two of whom I played before starting DMing, Ive found them useful as NPCs because I like them. Small and pale and a great desire to be evil. Sometimes sides with good for his own later benefit. Wanted nothing more than to become a Lich god. Hated good Necromancers more than anything in the world. Hated his father for cruel magical experiments. VERY strong hatred of anything evil. Able to detect alignments, worshiped a troll god. Used a sword that was too big for him and was way smarter than him. After his people were killed he was raised from infancy by a gang of human thieves. Believed himself for a long time to be human, thinks everyone sees him as human. He often thinks he needs to explain to people that he isnt human. Because he was raised by humans he behaves like a human and not an elf. Mildly racist against any other race. See's Tengu as inherintly superior. Loves shiny things. Makes no bones about using other races for his own benefit. This is all I have time for. Id love to do more but maybe Ill comment again later if I can."
"Thurnaz ""Stormchaser"" Gathakanathi",Male Goliath Cleric (Tempest Domain)," He always felt an affinity for foul weather, so one day he left his family and followed the storms around the mountains. One day, he came across a shrine below a statue of a storm god, with a chest. The chest contained armour, robes and weapons, all marked with the sign of the storm (lightning bolts, wind and clouds). He believes that the storm spirits chose him for great things."
Keranth Arbright,Male Human Wizard," Keranth is about 68 years old, has a heavily lined face and long white hair and a short beard. He tells people this: He has spent the majority of his life on purely theoretical studies of the arcane, and has recently sold his house to go travelling. The truth is this: He is a necromancer, whose spellbook is his own flesh. Spells are tattooed onto his body using the blood of innocents as ink. The main hint of this is that he does not have a spellbook. He is a generally kindly fellow with a cheerful attitude to life, whenever in company."
Jeorg Spravahich,Male Orc Weaponsmith," Some people, upon entering the weaponsmiths trade, settle for reliability and a steady income by manufacturing swords, axes, shields, the usual. Not Jeorg. Jeorg specialises in experimental seige weaponry, with emphasis on ""mental"". Ballistae which fire smaller ballistae, giant crossbows which fire metal shrapnel in almost every direction, trebuchets with a range of several kilometers but fall apart every time you fire them, he makes them all. And as he watches the test-shots, he laughs a deep hearty laugh that hints at the insanity within. (Based on this guy.)"
Yuguhhurukk Rachhanahhach,Male Gnome Barbarian," It is not exactly certain that his name really is ""Yuguhhurukk Rachhanahhach"", everyone simply assumes that it is because that is what he introduces himself as. His speech is distorted, however, by the ritual piercings of a member of his tribe who is on a Blood Quest. This piercing takes the form of a relatively large iron bar passing through both cheeks, impaling the tounge in passing, with symbols of his god on the end of each bar, holding it in place. He also abhors writing, making communication all but impossible. He has settled in the countryside far from his homeland, as some unknown incident has erased his memory of the details of Blood Quest, he only remembers that he is on one, and that the bar may not be removed before it is complete. His speech is incomprehensible. For example, ""Can you direct me to the nearest tavern?"" becomes ""Chlaag urghh urechh ee oo aa eggaech aggerrr?"""
Kimberly Parish,Female Vampire Innkeeper," Kimberly tends a bar in a dive town, and yet somehow the bar patrons are unusually quiet and docile once through the doors. Unlike any other inn in town, disputes are settled calmly, fights are unheard of, and lewd behaviour is nonexistent. This may have something to do with the covered bite marks on the patrons shoulders, and what may be hidden behind the scarf Kimberly keeps wrapped around her neck."
Vonrick the Valient,Male Human Paladin/Knight," Vonrick is the quinessential knight; he is tall, strongly-built and honourable as well as charming. He only hopes that none find out his gifts with the sword and lance came as a deal with a demon. The price was the life of his own brother, who Vonrick led to the lake and drowned as a young teen."
Old Obert,Male Human Wizard," While Obert is pushing 100 years of age, he will vehemently argue any claims that his abilities are dwindling. He spends most of his time alone in his tower outside of the village, trying to perfect a spell he had dreamed of years ago."
Peter of the Old Order,Male Human Cleric," Under his cream-coloured cloak and old roughspun tunic and with his gentle way of speaking, one may confuse Peter as a man against violence. However, he is a recruiter for one of the strongest military-churches in the land and had no qualms against wielding his hammer against those he sees as sinners."
Sir Michael Mill,Male Human Sword-fighting instructor," Michael showed great promise with the sword in his youth, and was even knighted for his efforts in battle. However, at the age of 21, he stepped in a bear trap. The foot became infected and it was amputed. He now trains the younger boys in his town on swordplay."
"""Lute""",Male halfling Bard," A travelling singer and lute-player, simply known as ""Lute"". He chooses to follow adventuring parties for inspiration for new songs."
"Ella ""Nightstinger""",Female Half-elf Archer/Hunter," Growing up as a Half-Elf in a Human village can be difficult enough, especially when one wants to become the first female hunter. However, her ability to hunt at night has earned her the respect of the others."
Keltrin,Female Human Warlock," Cloaked in blacks and reds, Keltrin always seeks out new cities to perform her dark magic. For a price, one can borrow her skills, but there is no knowing when your payment will be finished."
Quiet Ben,Male Human Bodyguard," Three things make Ben the outstanding bodyguard that he is: his bear-like stature, his loyalty to his employer and the day his father cut his tongue out for humiliating him in front of a Prince."
Maggie Bluestream,Female Half-Elf birdkeeper," Maggie is a Half-Elf. She understands that there are those in this world who do not take kindly to species-mixing. Her brother had warned her as much before he was captured in a raid when they were young. She has cut off the points to her ears, takes in the sun as much as she can, and plays the fool when she hears Elvish being spoken. She dresses herself in Human clothing, and has stopped practising any customs from her childhood. She has been put in charge of the messenger-pigeons for the Baron, and prays that one day she finds Elves contacting him, so she may try to find a home with people more accepting."
Khyban,Female Dragonborn General," Khyban was never meant to become a General. She had six brothers, all of them strong and capable of command. It was Khyban's lot to work with potions, or inter-clan diplomacy, or to help raise the younglings of her brothers. Dragonborn clans don't often look kindly on those who reject the role given to them. But when a Dragonborn returns home one night displaying the severed head of a Hill Giant, before they have even fully reached adulthood, it is impossible to ignore them. Khyban knows how to reward captains and soldiers who please her in battle. Displeasing Khyban rarely happens now."
Sir Annory Garfield,Male Human Captain," Though his family name does carry importance in the kingdom, there isn't a knight who thinks Annory has earned the respect himself. Sir Annory has notoriously been part of battles that were already largely won, or were an easy victory. He has always requested to be stationed near less-troublesome areas. However, none of this works to lessen his arrogance, and he will inflate his achievements in battle whenever his honour is questioned."
Darber Claytop,Male Dwarf Diplomat," Darber is perhaps the only famous Dwarf in the kingdom who didn't earn such fame with a weapon. His crowning achievement thus far has been his negotiations with Karg the Big. Karg was an Orc chieftan who had grown his war pack large enough to threaten the city. However, using his snakelike tongue, Darber was able to stave off the Orc invasion for four full days; enough time for reinforcement cavalry to arrive and smash the Orc host. Darber now works within the city as a highly-respected ambassador."
Captain Bobbla of the Cerulean Shadow,Female Halfling Pirate," When she is in the company of other pirate captains, Bobbla will brag that her ship hasn't needed to seek a shore in over eight years. Her success with ship-raiding has been such that the sea provides all the treasure she needs. She leads her crew of Halflings in the long, blue-painted ship known as the Cerulean Shadow. If Bobbla wishes to remain unseen in a shadow, she will do so. If she desires that her ship remain unseen in broad daylight, it too will do so. No non-Halfling have ever survived once they step on Bobbla's ship, so the secret to the boat's stealth remains a mystery."
Gretchen Farseer,Female Human Soothsayer," Gretchen was once a talented seer for her marshland clan. She had correctly predicted bandit raids, locust swarms, plague, lightning storms and even wars. Her predictions have saved her clan innumerable times, and for this she has been treated with great reverence within her clan. It is a shame that her talents have dwindled with her advanced age, however. It has been four years since she has claimed to see anything but the supposedly incoming ""ocean of fire""."
Elena Redlegs,Female Human Goblin Queen," Goblins attacker her village. Her daughter was killed in the raid by a Goblin chieftan. She begged her king for help, but none was provided. So she took her kitchen knife, sneaked into the Goblin cave, somehow found the sleeping chieftan and took his head. She was found soaked in his blood, and carrying his head. For this, the Goblins kneeled to her and proclaimed her the new chieftan. For the past two years, Elena has led raids with her ever-growing Goblin clan on her former king's outposts for revenge of his inaction."
Handsome Andre,Male Human creeper," I can offer some that were discontinued from previous campaigns that I liked: An expert marksman who could thread a needle with an arrow at 100 yards despite only being 13 years old. Will no doubt be a legend in years to come. Very shy and has unfortunate bumfluff. Physically quite weak, and cannot finish a sentence without his voice cracking. Once was nearly killed by an Owlbear. Well known in his small town for bringing home large game from hunts with expert killing blows. Andre is a 1/10 ugly creepy dude with a smoking hot 10/10 wife. He was given the ironic nickname ""Handsome"" after he married his extremely attractive and loyal wife who is beloved by the town. Unknown to the townsfolk Andre made a pact to sell his soul to a demon when he was young in order to make his high school crush fall in love with him forever. (In my game he was a warlock but he doesn't have to be) He was an adventurer for several years, and uses the money he earned to make a living as a patron of local sculptors, masons and painters, paying their living expenses for an extortionate proportion of the profits from their work."
Thaemos Leafstrider,Male Wood Elf Priest," A handsome elf with golden hair and an uneasy smile. He is sympathetic to those who suffer, but he is very cautious to meddle in others affairs: ""That is nature's way."" He is (or was) the caretaker of a sacred place, deep in an ancient forest. He is loathe to share the secrets of that place."
Mairiel Moonblossom,Female Wood Elf Druid," Long, silky amber hair frames the elf-maiden's sharp features and deep blue eyes. She lives lonely, even by wood elf standards. She spends most of her days meditating in a remote sacred grove in an ancient forest that is filled with terrors. She knows many secrets of the forest, but the promise of uncovering its deeper secrets can draw her away from her sacred grove."
Eloranae Mistdancer,Female Wood Elf Ranger," The elf wears a dull cloak clasped beneath her chin with a brooch of swirling crystal; her iridescent green eyes gaze wistfully as her platinum hair flutters gently in the wind. Eloranae has been walking to the ends of the world, looking for what few wood elves remain. She is the last of her house and carries an immense sorrow behind her eyes. She is a true friend, but unleash's an incredible fury upon her enemies, sometimes waiting decades or centuries before the opportune moment to take revenge."
Corian Leafstrider,Male Wood Elf Scout," The blonde elf tosses his hair over his shoulder and stifles his laugh long enough to take a swallow of wine from the skin that hangs about his neck. When set on a task, Corian will carry it out with unerring determination; his family sometimes jokingly chide him as ""Half-Elven,"" suggesting he may carry the blood of men within him. When not on a specific mission, Corian is a merry companion; keeping company mostly with men and halflings in the travelers' camps in the forest or at the travelers' along the road. His family, especially his brother, thinks Corian is a troublemaker; the truth is Corian feels the sadness and loss that others do, perhaps more sharply, and he drinks and makes-merry so as not to be consumed by the gloom."
Cirthoeil II of House Darkwater,Male Wood Elf King," A muscular elf with golden brown hair and a grim countenance. Cirthoeil has reigned as the King of the Shadowwood for centuries, though few outside his woodland realm have ever heard of him; he is a just ruler among his people, but he is not kind to outsiders. In his youth, he traveled widely and fought bravely against many earthly and otherworldly evils. Possessing no magical gifts of his own, he is especially jealous and suspicious of spellcasters or those who carry items of great magical power with them."
"Winnie ""The Pixie"" Shoemaker",Female Human Harlot," This petite, sleepy-eyed brunette was beautiful once, and she can still enchant: It's in the way she moves. Winnie has had a hard go of it, she rarely laughs anymore, and no one seems to know where she grew up. She's been a staple of the taverns and brothels of the River District for years, and she's notched some impressive tricks into her belt: Fearsome outlaws, well-known ship captains, wealthy merchants, and ""the world's greatest thief."" She used to be the life of the party, but the joy of ale and wine have begun to wane, as does her beauty."
Aldorn Braxton,Male Human Thief," A dark-eyed man with a winning grin scans the room with his keen eyes. Aldorn is a treasure-hunter, a thrill-seeker, an excellent friend to those who will lead him to opportunities for gold and glory. He claims to be the ""world's greatest thief,"" and he's well-known in the low districts and in high society alike, though he's not always welcome in either. Aldorn is quick to draw on his wits and his knife for any who doubt his claims, but he knows when to run: ""The better part of greatness is staying alive."""
"""Hobo"" Tim",Male Human Drunk," A portly man with several tattoos mumbles incoherently from under his long, unkempt grey beard. The people of the River District call him ""Tim,"" and he answers, but no one really knows his name (of course, they call him ""Hobo,"" and he answers to that too. He is usually harmless, mumbling about needing coin at passers by; erratically, he will last out with racist tirades, particularly directing them at dwarves. He has been stumbling around the River District for at least fifteen years; although it's not clear if he even knows who or what he was before then, he does sport an unusual tattoo of a man-spearing-a-shark-eating-a-dragon-eating-a-dwarf."
Sir Ayrin Favager,Male Human Knight," Sir Ayrin clanks about in his steel armor, carrying a warhammer, a shield, and a holier-than-thou attitude. He grew up as a commoner, a blacksmith's apprentice, but he was raised up to knighthood after he saved a powerful lord's son in a skirmish with a rival at a tavern. Sir Ayrin had been proud of his work at the forge; now he's even prouder of his elevated social rank. He tends to be suspicious that people are cheating him; after being offered the position of knight, he first refused believing the lord's messenger was mocking him."
Ole Moonsen,Male Human Sailor," Atop Ole's big frame sits a red-round head with dark, short-cropped hair, dark stubble of a beard, and watery blue eyes. He has sailed on trading vessels up and down the coast for several years. Ole tends to be forgetful about details, but he's reliable enough when it comes to the tasks aboard a ship. He loves to share bawdy stories and jokes over some wine or ale, and once he starts drinking, he rarely stops until he's snoring."
Baris Tyrento,Male Human Sheepherder," Unshaven and unwashed, Baris stinks of sheep and looks even worse, clad in filthy leathers and a ragged cloak. He owns a few dozen sheep and scrapes a living off sale of wool (and occasionally mutton) that he trades with the merchant caravans that venture far enough north to pass his homestead. Ever since he caught a caravan guard flirting with her, Baris fears that his pretty young wife will leave him for someone more handsome and dashing. Baris was twice before, but each of his previous wives left him childless when she died."
"Iliana ""Illy"" Portnoir",Female Human Assassin," Illy is a beautiful dark-haired woman with a small but athletic frame and lips that were made for kissing. She lies about everything: ""Don't trust me,"" she coos with a wink. She hires her services (many as they are) out for a steep price, but she always delivers: ""No one does it better than me,"" she says with a sweet smile. Most kills are strictly business, but some kills she enjoys, as she seeks the men who killed her father when she was a girl."
"Gerwac, the Knowing",Male Human Wizard-Headmaster," Few have seen the face of the headmaster of the Steelmoon Academy, but those who have describe him as a thin man with an unsettling gaze. He spends much of his time in the seclusion of his study; on occasion, he visits the school's library or walks the grounds, wearing a heavy black cloak with a hood drawn about his face. Nothing is known of Gerwac before he founded the school a few decades ago, choosing what is believed to be a haunted mountain for its grounds. His school is as secretive as he is; little is known about the school to those outside it, and it is whispered that the students fear him tremendously."
Daek Obskur,Male Human Curio-Shopkeeper," The spry old man has silver gray hair and whiskers and ruddy skin stretched across his long hooked nose and the rest of his bony face; he eyes his customers keenly. ""Welcome, welcome! May I collect the dust from your feet? Travelers' feet are full of interesting sands and lints from far off places—quite useful for magic."" The old man doesn't wait for an answer but drops his book and scrambles over the counter to begin collecting dirt from his customers' feet, collecting it into small glass vials. He is cautious about local laws, but he knows a good customer when he sees one; he raises his voice speaking loud enough that anyone out on the street could hear him, ""Though I don't know how to do any magic myself."""
Torrek Holdeger,Male Dwarf Armorer," The dwarf pensively strokes the long dark brown braid of his beard; his other hand rests atop the hammer strapped to his belt. Torrek is a perfectionist; trained by a master craftsman, his own skill exceeds that of his former mentor. Since becoming a refugee after the destruction of his kingdom, Torrek has been reduced to taking on journeyman work at various forges. Torrek would like to settle some place quiet where he can open his own forge; he hates the city."
Torgrim Holdeger,Male Dwarf Soldier," The dwarf clad in mail carries a large battleaxe; his long black beard is tidy and combed out straight. Torgrim learned some rudimentary healing skills while serving as a soldier to his king; he never had the patience to study the healing arts properly. Since the goblin horde over-ran his kingdom, Torgrim has taken on a variety of jobs as a mercenary or enforcer. Torgrim is fond of drinking, carousing, and fighting; he enjoys life in the city."
Jurk Ironbiter,Male Dwarf Berserker," The dwarf seems to be staring at nothing, his auburn beard a wild tangle; then he stares right at you. Jurk's gaze is unsettling, he rarely speaks, and he is fearless in battle. His grip on sanity slipped after seeing the goblins smash his king's army and take the king himself. Jurk will fiercely defend the honor of his fallen king at the least provocation."
Cirolas Summerstar,Male High Elf Storyteller," The lanky, brown-haired elf looks about with his wide green eyes, taking in everything. He knows the histories and songs of many peoples and places, their legends and their endings, and can tell their stories so they are all-at-once epic, personal, comedic, and tragic. He knows how to tell a story, but he also knows how to listen for one: ""And then?"" nodding eagerly. He belongs to an ancient and noble house and is seeking some secret piece of lore."
Jelenneth Wintermoon,Female High Elf Oracle, The sight of the thin blonde elf with brilliant blue eyes and a faraway gaze fills you with a pang of loss. She has watched the stars for centuries; she knows the doom they foretell and it fills her with sadness. Jelenneth longs to uncover new portents and omens that contradict what she has foreseen. She is often distracted from the most pressing questions by the opportunity to learn something new by following a tangential train of thought.
"Thrakk, the Chief of the Palefists, Lord of Eastern Horde, Slayer of Men, Eater of Elves",Male Orc Warlord," Thrakk is bigger, meaner, and smarter than the other 10,000 orcs of the Eastern Horde; don't get in his way. He ascended to chief of the Palefist clan at a relatively young age by stabbing the previous chief through the back with his blade, cutting his heart out, and devouring it; ever since, he's been uniting the Eastern clans through a combination of intimidation, bribery, slaughter, and lies. Thrakk has aspirations to drive the Eastern Horde over the mountains to invade the Western Kingdoms; if he can and if he adds the Northern clans to his horde, he may well conquer the world. If you meet Thrakk, chances are you are already dead and on his dinner plate; if you're alive, he must see some use for you, and he'll most likely kill you when that use has expired."
Kuranath,Male Half-Orc Pit-Fighter," Scars cover much of his nearly hairless head and neck, and he often cradles an oddly shaped brass knuckle in his hand. He enjoys being around people, but he is often silent among them. He is an escaped slave, and he is frightened that his cruel former masters may find him: ""I never stay in one place too long."" He despises fighting in the pits, but it's all he's ever known, and he wins."
Lurg,Male Half-Orc Thug," The half-orc's dark eyes dimly follow the fly that has been attracted to his revolting scent, as he lines up to swat it with his club. Lurg is big and stupid, but he can follow simple instructions well enough. He will readily follow anyone who promises him the opportunity to smash things, taking greater satisfaction from this than from anything gold can buy. Lurg is easily distracted by food, and he is particularly fond of wines and pungent cheeses."
Gaeryon Vyn Dordevetym,Male Human Merchant," The cloth merchant laughs nervously as he wipes the sweat from his brow with a lace-trimmed silk handkerchief. Gaeryon is a member of a wealthy merchant family who owns the exclusive a share of rights to export of the cloth produced by the weavers' guild in the city. He travels the roads in a yearly cycle with a small cadre of guards and a man-servant, purchasing raw wool from rural sheepherders and bringing them cloth and a handful of other dry goods produced in the city. Gaeryon is friendly but he despises travel: if he had his way, he'd work in the family's offices and stay at home with his wife and children year-round."
Sir Roderick Chansym,Male Human Knight," Sir Roderick, handsome, tall, and blonde, stares at you with some of the sweetest blue eyes you've ever seen. One of the king's boldest knights, Sir Roderick has gained renown throughout the realm for his brave deeds. He rose to prominence by winning the princess's name day tournament: there is a rumor that he harbors a secret love for her. Sir Roderick plays the part of the pure and genteel knight well, but he's actually quite a rake when he thinks no one from court is watching."
Valaerys Nightspear,Female Dark Elf Warrior," Silver-haired with sharp features, Valaerys fled from her home in the Underdark after attempting to spirit away a pair of frightened young human girls who had been taken as slaves during a surface raid. Moved by compassion, she managed to help one girl escape, but the other was run down by her former comrades in the attempt. Having been seen in the attempt, she had no choice but to run or to face death, as would have been the punishment meted out by the spider priestess. She and her young companion have been wandering the shadow lands for 15 years now, taking on what small quests they can while avoiding encounters with other dark elves at all cost."
"Mirmarye ""Mimi"" Sohuster",Female Human Assassin," As a young girl, dark elves raided Mimi's village, kidnapping her and her sister. Mimi escaped with the help of a dark elf warrior, who has since served as her guardian and companion while they wandered the shadow lands as refugees. Growing up on the move and among the rough and the lowly, Mimi became quite good at sneaking, stealing, and knifing her way out of many desperate situations. Mimi has grown to be a beautiful dark-haired young woman, but she is grim and pessimistic, harboring suspicion against strangers, especially human men and all elves, except for her companion."
Sister Niradella Tariskoff,Female Human Priestess," Hailing from the North, Niradella is the winter fury, the cold wind that cuts to the bone; her icy stare hides the true meaning of her words. Her widowed mother, unable to support her, left her to be raised as an initiate in to the Storm King's Temple of Winter as a small girl. By the aid of her instructors and her Northern blood, she has grown powerful: well-versed in magical lore, skilled in the healing arts, capable of manipulating the forces of winter, and deadly to the temple's enemies. Though loyal to the temple's hierarchy and purposes, Niradella does not know how her father died nor what became of her mother; the chance to uncover these truths could tempt her to break her vows."
Thia Gallytuck,Female Halfling Innkeeper," A pleasingly plump halfling with a long, dark braid, and a welcoming smile. Thia is a nurturing soul who loves to cook for her guests: They say she makes the best pies this side of the old forest. She runs (or ran) an inn that belonged to her father in a small riverside village. A heartbreaking fate befell her sweetheart, and she sometimes drowns her sorrows in ale."
Tom Watters,Male Halfling Ferryman," A friendly little chap with an unfortunate scar in the shape of an onion on his left cheek. Watters poles the ferry that serves as the primary crossing for the river at the edge of his village; he enjoys talking to travelers. When he's not at the ferry, he's probably out walking the woods--a practice he finds therapeutic since he gave up gambling. He owes a considerable gambling debt to a bandit: Occasionally, the ne'er-do-well presses him to ferry him across the river in the dead of night as a favor."
Finnan Wetherwise,Male Halfling Pickpocket," The halfling scowls into his mug of ale, bushy brown eyebrows arching over dark brown eyes. Finnan will lift anything of value that is not tied down, and he may even try to take some of those things as well. He is loyal to his friends, but he is not keen on making any new ones. When he spots something valuable, Finnan will brood and stare at it until he can work out how to lift it."
Baznar Metalshine,Male Halfling Sheriff," The ruddy-faced halfling puffs out his chest and reaches for the shortsword at his belt and marches in your direction. The son of a gardener, his parents named him Barnabas Arthor Tinsparkle at birth; he started calling himself Baznar Metalshine as a youth because he thought it sounded tougher than Barney Tinsparkle. Though generally well-intentioned, Baznar can be a bit of a nosy, self-righteous ass. Baznar knows everything about everyone in the village, but if you call him ""Barney"" you can forget about getting any help from him."
"Male, Human, Ships Captain",Arnold Johnson," He owns the Jolly Sailor a rag-tag ship with a sloppily painted pink stripe with the ships name on it. He has a big blonde bushy beard and a head smooth as a bowling ball, with some sapphire eyes to top it off. He is a jolly fellow who employ a band to play at the helm of ship while his men sing songs as they row. He's Arnold Johnson merchant extraordinaire."
Rick Dane,Male Human Wizard," Rick is a very successful, middle-aged wizard. He lives in his own pocket dimesion which resembles a big mansion surrounded by a forest. He lives in the mansion alongside his tamed imp servants. His wife is a kind female djin, who he met while foraging for alchemy ingredients. He fell head over heels for her. In his early days rick was an adventurer. His reputation got him invited to the League Of Extraordinary Adventurer."
Sharom Virak,Male Human Shopkeeper," Sharom is calm and pensive, his gaze seems attentive but sad like something is missing from his life. Sharom is haunted by the memories of loosing his wife, Parsala in one of the many raids that the town has had to endured. Sharom used to be happy and gleeful, until the day they took his wife. As a shopkeeper, he is patient and tries to explain what things are to adventurers who have never seen certain items. Additionally, Sharom is trying to teach the business to his only son, Shendi."
Shendi Virak,male human shopkeeper apprentice," Shendi is distracted, oblivious and forgetful. His father has explained him time and time again how much things cost and what they are, and he sometimes forgets. Shendi loves new visitors and will ask them all kinds of questions. Unlike his father, he is charismatic and doesn't gloom over the loss of his mother as frequently. Shendi is good at names, that much he remembers and if adventurers tell him where they are going, the next time they return he will ask them about their travels and sit and talk with them for a while. Shendi dreams of being an adventurer, and has tried to get his father to teach him how to use the weapons they sell to no avail."
Theomund Tarley,Male half-Elven drunk tinkerer," Slender half elf in his mid thirties. Patchy beard, unkempt black hair and a dirty straw hat. Wears a sleeveless white shirt, is usually seen carrying around a messenger bag containing all his tinkering tools and a ceramic jug full of moonshine . Keeps himself drunk at most times, swears loudly and often and tends to get himself into trouble at the tavern during his free time."
Ragnar Rödhake,"Male human ex-marauder, now town guard"," Large man with long, braided, red hair and a well-kept full beard. Usually seen in his armor walking around town telling people about his past exploits. Slight limp on his left leg due to an injury he sustained in one of his adventures."
Byrone Fjorder,Male Human River Guide/Priest," A priest to the local River god, Byrone is a kind, albeit gruff, soul with oily skin, dark features and a bushy beard. He always gets you where you need to go, but is rarely hired as some of the priests in his religion are known to drown passengers as sacrifices to the river."
Taleros Twinblade,Male Human Mercenary," A young, handsome mercenary who wears gold-dyed plate armor and wields two swords at once. He's a real bravo, but has a caring heart of goldas resplendent as his ridiculous armor beneath it. He's more of an ass-man."
Herra Geralt,Female Half-Elf Noblewoman," Her hair is long, black and thick and is always covering her ears. Her elven heritage is hidden from other nobles at all times and she's ruthless in her efficiency to eliminate anyone who knows her secret. She wears blouses with skin-tight leggings and is seen carrying a stiletto strapped to her thigh wherever she goes."
Muran and Nuran Rockbeard,Male Dwarf Smiths," Muran and Nuran are identical twins and have opened up a weaponsmith and armorsmith across the street from each other. Muran always tells customer's that he's the handsome one and loves to call Nuran an ""old fool"" because he's about 3 minutes older than him. They love to cause mischief and headache for each other and laugh raucously over a beer or ten about it later, but would do anything to protect the other if it was called for."
Tenarus Sinsword,Male Tiefling Extremist," Tenarus travels the lands, making trouble for authority and peasants alike in the name of Tiefling racial superiority. He calls for his brothers and sisters to rise up and reclaim the glory they once had. His antics and actions rarely lead to success, and is often arrested. He always shows up again in another town, raising hell, and nobody knows how he always manages to escape."
Mara Heskan,Female Dragonborn Crusader," Mara is a Paladin of Bahamut, and is actually Biri Bahamin, eldest daughter of the Grand Justicar of a powerful Theocracy. She is on a secret mission to obtain a tome of history pertaining to an ancient cult of Tiamat. She is stoic and serious, but still young and inexperienced. She is sometimes a little ham-handed in keeping her identity straight."
Kar Olodak,Male Tiefling Clothier," Kar Olodak and his sons Belkul and Oti run a clothing store. Kar Olodak wears dirty clothes that he has been working in, he is a hale but boring man, more focused on his work than conversation or customers. Kar plays the lute in the local band, Mithril Maiden."
Darella Runehouse,Female Dwarf Blacksmith," Darella Runehouse, noted for her ability to play the drums and a large birthmark on her neck. She is strong and able, but a little absent-minded when she isn’t working. She has a complex network of connections between local towns that she needs a notebook to keep track of. She is also a member of Mithril Maiden."
Jam Blackwood,Male Goliath Barkeep," A shady, run down bar, the Staggering Spider, is run by an older Goliath names Jam Blackwood. His nose appears to be broken several times over, but he is a strong, but rather uneducated man. Despite his gruff appearance, he is actually great with kids. He also plays the violin for Mithril Maiden."
Wal Axehand,Male Minotaur Baker," Wal Axehand is an eccentric and energetic Minotaur who runs the local bakery. He is tall and incredibly muscular, and despite his intimidating appearance, he goes about his work with a happy smile and a pleasant and jovial demeanor. At night, he dons leather chaps and sings for the local band, Mithril Maiden."
Lora Olyonis,Female Human Entrepreneur," Lora runs the Olyonis Carriage Company, a large, multi-city transport company that makes a living transporting people and goods between cities. She is serious and shrewd, but always fair. Her carriages use advanced defensive technology and spells to conceal and protect them."
Oleg Olegson,Male Human Mayor/Shopkeep," Oleg is a large man, often mistaken for a Goliath in size or Minotaur in hair, but he is incredibly boisterous and kind. He speaks in a thick Russian accent that makes him seem dimwitted and easy to exploit, but he is powerful and intelligent. He lives on the frontier, hoping to rebuild the town of his forefathers that was destroyed in a great war years ago. He always has a business proposal or quest ready for adventurers he considers competent and reliable."
Thangardt,Male Duergar miner," Thangardt is a dark purple skinned duergar with soot-stained brown miners clothing and a pair of magical goggles that hang around his neck when not worn. The goggles are basically x-ray goggles that can see metal through rock (and other materials). He has the intention of using these newly found goggles to establish a new mining company. He is friendly with anyone that he might want something from, and often chooses to avoid those he doesn't need anything from."
Reginald,Male Human Ghost Butler," Reginald is a ghost that haunts an old broken down abandoned mansion on the Rasch estate. The owners of the home have fallen victim to a grizzly murder years ago, and Reginald was also one of the victims. Reginald is completely in denial of that though, and he still acts as the butler (his profession before his demise) and is welcoming of any company that enters the home or grounds. The previous owners, however, aren't as welcoming..."
Vyncis Castow,Male Human Politician," Vyncis has worked his way up the political ladder from being just a clerk in the permits office of the city of Alma. Despite only being about 32, he has made his way onto the city council and is a well liked and respected man in the city. He has jet black hair and usually dresses in Maroon robes. Vyncis has many associates, sometimes that obtain information and goods in less reputable ways that Vyncis would care to admit publicly. He uses subterfuge to obtain what he desires, power."
Bertrand the Bear,Male Bear Hunter," To a degree he is inspired partially by Sir Bearington. Bertrand was a bear that was found abandoned by a dryad named Sylva. He was raised by the dryad and they would converse as he grew up. Sylva taught him the ways of the forest. A group of hunters encountered Bertrand and tried to kill him once. Sylva tried to stop them but ended up being mortally wounded by the hunters. Now Bertrand has an extreme hatred for those that hunt the forest creatures, and he actively hunts the hunters in the woods."
Blackie 'Lefty' Smith,Male Human Blacksmith," Blackie is an albino blacksmith that has no left hand. He is in the business of selling fake/shoddy specialized weapons to adventurers (such as silvered weapons), then collecting those weapons (and all their other loot) from the dungeon/haunted house/other dangerous area that the adventurers bought the weapons for after they have been killed. Sometimes he'll act as a catalyst in these situations by following the adventurers and putting them in a position to die."
Michael Jorin,Male Human Travel Bard," Thikear is the pride of Deln. His wares are sold through the world, and he knows it. He will always remember his own creations no matter the quality. His only goal is to further is own notoriety. Michael travels the known world collecting stories and giving voice to the little known heroes. He is a wanted man for his sexual prowess. Many fathers wish to see him brought down after his dalliances with their daughters."
Jorakus Pide,Male Human Monk/Cleric," Was once destitute and faithless, worked odd jobs, including sewage. On one cleanup, found an octagonal yellow gem that he believes is the eye of the long-dead god, Kraxos. He is now on a one-man mission to restore the faith of this ancient deity. Travels from town to town, preaching his faith."
Ana Englethorn,Female Human Swordmistress," Tall and stately, and widely acknowledged as beautiful, Ana Englethorn is not the image of a warrior one might expect of the Swordmistress of Firthring Keep. Yet her skill at arms is not in question, and the Duke entrusts to her the training of all his soldiers and his children. The Duke knew Ana as an adventurer before he came into his title, and rumours abound that with the passing of his wife the rekindling of a past romantic interest may be in the offing. There is no evidence to support the rumour, but gossip has a life of its own. Ana is actually a song dragon named Anazalgara, a secret of which the Duke is well aware."
Forthright Hooley,Male Human Ombudsman," Forthright likes to tell people that his father believed in openness and honesty, and gave him both a name and a legacy to live up to. He lives in the city-state of [insert name here] where he is appointed ombudsman to the democratically elected council. His job is to see to it that citizens are treated fairly by the council and mediate settlement of any issues. As politicians go he is well-liked and hotly tipped to be appointed to the council itself should he run next term. Forthright claims to have come from elsewhere, but in truth, he is a steel dragon named Farvaskargal."
Gardim Hussal,Male Human Balladeer," The well-meaning if pompous leader of a troupe of travelling entertainers, Gardim is modestly famous for his ballads, although he is past his prime. Once a rogueish ladies man who caused the ladies in his audience to swoon, he is now portly and balding, and of much less interest. He content himself with his art, his troupe, his memories, and much wine. He treats his troupe like family, and when it comes to his family he is generous with both his time and his trust."
Hekkle and Mekkle (real names Horace and Mortimer Fallowfield),Male Halfling Jesters," The two jesters of the Duke of Firthring Keep. Mekkle is cheerful and friendly, the favourite of all the court, especially the Duke's children. Hekkle, on the other hand, is dour of demanour. However, he is only this way because he's deeply unhappy, and all because of his brother. Their mother was cursed while they were still in the womb, and as a result Mekkle was born capable of great cruelty and evil. Hekkle doesn't blame his brother for something that was never his fault, but spends his entire life trying to cover up Mekkle's secret. He is constantly on the watch to prevent his brother's actions, or frantically attempting to either undo or conceal his brother's role in them."
Kellis Synastal,Female Gnome Secretary," Kellis acts as secretary to Forthright Hooley, and greatly admires both the man and his work ethic. She is a very loyal employee, though it does not appear there is any romantic interest there. She has that stereotypical librarian look going on - hair in a bun, spectacles, and slightly frumpy clothing. Behind this unassuming exterior is an extremely keen mind, not to mention a sharp tongue. Kellis has no time to suffer fools, and will not hesitate to show someone the door if she considers them a time waster. She is a formidable gatekeeper that has thwarted many an individual seeking audience with her boss."
Lavisca Lorde (real name Leia Larkin),Female Human Dancer/Spy," Petite, dainty, and stunning, ""Lavisca"" is famed throughout the lands for her graceful and acrobatic dance routines. She travels with the entertainer's troupe of Gardim Hussal, and is without question the primary reason the troupe is so often invited to perform in courts across the continent. The troupe a perfect cover for her true business. She is a freelance spy, taking the opportunity while at court to go where she does not belong and dig into the secrets of the aristocracy. She can sneak around with the best of them, but most often gains entry into private chambers by a simpler method; flirtation."
Manfred Black,Male Half-orc Legal Historian," The circumstances of his birth may have been tragic, and even his poorly chosen name acting as a frank reminder of what he is not, but Manfred grew up determined to make something of himself and be seen as a productive member of society. His keen mind eventually earned the attention of noted historian Berholt Black, who adopted and began educating him. Manfred was particularly keen on the law, its history, and its various manifestations in states around the world. He has achieved his dream, and is now seen as one of the foremost authorities on international law."
Oskar Udyll,Male Human Warrior," Oskar travels with Gardim's troupe, despite having no particular artistic talent. He was brought on board as a guard after the troupe fell victim to banditry. While they know how to handle themselves, Gardim felt that an experienced warrior would do a lot to make the troupe look a less appealing target. He also trains the troupe's members, making them more proficient in defending themselves. Despite the troupe's attempts to make him part of the ""family"", Oskar is by nature taciturn and tends to keep himself to himself. Oskar comes from the Cold North, and complains about weather any warmer than temperate."
Randle Wimms,Male Half-elf Scribe," Randle learned the art of the scribe in a monastery, but did not have the temperament for the life of a monk. After several masdventures he ended up in [insert city name], working as a forger for the Red Hand crime guild. He enjoys the money but not the risk, and is looking for the first opportunity to escape the city with a big bag of cash."
Rodagar Ironthrone,Male Dwarf Lutist," Never satisfied with the life he had back home under the mountains, Rodagar never looked back after he moved away. He found a passion for the arts, and is an extremely proficient musician with great technical ability. Rodagar is part of the band who plays for Lavisca's act, and the first time he ever saw her dance he fell in love."
Gavin Burlester,Male Human Wizard/Wu Jen/Warmage," An aspiring young mage who believes that magic missile is the greatest spell in existence. A passing mage saved his life with one almost as an afterthought (it was his last 1st-level spell slot), but to Gavin it meant the world. He vowed that he would do whatever it took to learn how to cast magic missile (and only magic missile) as much as possible for the rest of his life. He has a younger brother who's a failed necromancer, who looks up to him and is trying to make his own mark as an artificer."
Devin Burlester,Male Human Necromancer/Artificer," Gavin's younger brother who wanted to learn magic like his older brother could do. Unfortunately, the only one available to teach Devin was an old necromancer in the depths of senility, so poor Devin didn't get the best education. While trying to animate a cat skeleton for practice outside a neighboring town one day, a female elf druid caught him in the act. Rather than immediately condemn him for his unnatural behavior, the druid offered him a chance to just drop the whole necromancy thing if he couldn't get the skeleton to animate. He couldn't, and so the druid connected him with the town artificer, who he is now apprenticed to. His early efforts are poor but he shows some promise."
Heaton Thorson,Male Human Figher," An extremely short, bearded fighter with a penchant for alcohol. He often gets confused with a dwarf, which makes him extremely upset. His code of honor is overly long and complicated, with rules such as ""Only fight Goblins with a hammer, never a sword."" Ever since he accidentally burned his family farm down, (""Never kill a rat swarm with anything but fire"") he's been travelling, looking to regain some riches."
Sir Kagrok the Hairy,Male Orc Paladin," The nicest Orc you're likely to meet, as he is deadly determined to prove to you that orcs can be good people. A bit simple-minded and slow, but far from dumb. Holds honour, virtue and above all mercy in the highest regard, and believes orcs are not beyond redemption. Talks in simple but clear terms."
Ketil Brokenose,Male half-elf blacksmith," Been in several too many bar fights. Earns a decent living by shoeing horses; spends a lot of it on ale. An honest and good man, who answers insults with a punch. Regularly donates money to the local temple but never attends sermons; he doesn't want some priest telling him to drink and fight less, and figures a sack of gold every once in a while should keep the gods happy."
Rivik the Fox,Female halfling ranger," Served as a scout in the army during . Called Fox due to her stealth, keen senses, and her bright red hair. Literally left the army; one day she simply packed her things (and a few other people's things, but she left letters of apology) and snuck out of camp to start an adventuring career. Now lives a solitary life of travel and adventuring, living off of hunting and selling animal pelts and finding adventuring work whereever she can."
Teresa Greenreeve the Bastard,Female half-orc bastard daughter and bard," Bastard daughter of Lord Greenreeve and an orc witch. Likes to boast and sing songs about her nobility and the might of House Greenreeve. Very unhappy with her life as a noblewoman, she struck out on her own to become a bard. Teresa makes a living by singing and casting spells at a tavern far away from Castle Greenreeve."
"""Grobby""","Male ""domesticated"" troll farmhand"," A born and bred troll, found by two elven farmer kids when he was a lil' troll. Has a personality not unlike a dog; loves to work and please his masters, who reward him with treats. Very protective of his ""family"", yet doesn't like to kill people. Extremely helpful and kind, Grobby utilizes his strength and size to great effect at the farm."
Tenzai the Lightningmancer,Male tiefling druid-evoker," Tenzai is fascinated by powers of destruction, specifically lightning. He lives in a ramshackle tree hut in a great oak tree in the woods where he studies the sky. Somewhat insane from isolation, his solution to most problems is to zap them with lightning. He is both a druid and an evoker wizard, as well as a brilliant scientist."
One-eye,Female Human Strumpet," Taken from his people at birth by the humans, for they feared this 'exalted child' born of the elves. The elves, to save many sacrificed this one. Tall and hawkish, with a scarred face from years of rebellious actions, he has grown old, the humans who took him long since died of age. He has a photographic memory, he knows what you want, the question is if he cares enough to tell you. Raised in the Daddy-no-daddy orphanage on the outskirts of town One-eye began her life with a name, but since the incident the fuss about that has died down. Now because she's too old for the orphanage and too spoilt for marriage she walks the streets hoping to have a warm place to sleep at night. She has a massive scar through her left eye-socket is medium height with black hair and 'loose clothing', usually hunched a little and has a lilting eerie charisma to her. (I gots 4 holes, which ya want?)"
Yvonne and Erica Strathmoor,Female Human Innkeeper," The Strathmoors are elderly innkeepers in kind of a shady part of town. The two mother/daughter and both advanced in age and nearly indistinguishable. No one, without expending some serious energy, has ever seen the two of them at the same time. They are soft spoken and gentle,, and turn a blind eye to the illegal activities happening within their inn."
Facescar,Male Human Thief," High up on the food chain that is the Daggerford Thieves Guild. Has a scar in the shape of a smiling face, on his face. Speaks with a gravelly voice due to inhaling soot from his youth spent as a chimney sweep. Not above stealing from the poor, but tends to steal from the rich as they have better stuff."
Helga Redeye,Salty Pig," Is somewhat ill-tempered and ugly, but secretly hopes one day a handsome adventurer will look past her physical flaws and love her for her true personality. Her true personality is that of an obstinate pig."
Jennelles Silverstring,Gnome Wizard," A slightly crazy, but incredibly smart wizard who helps the party overcome challenges. However, his strategies are often dangerous, excessively complicated, and almost always involve the polymorph spell. He also builds magic items, though they are always questionably useful or sometimes horribly dangerous to use."
Ronald the Shield Bearer,Male Human Retired Adventurer," A middle-aged possibly older man of a strong build. Ronald is an adventurer of the past generation and went on several heroic adventures. Though retired now he still helps out the adventurers cause. Motivating them with a story of his epic and daring quests, providing a first hand advice on a situation, or even helping defend the group with his signature duel shield style of fighting. If you spot the man carrying two shields ask him for a story he's sure to entertain you with a great one."
Howard Jackal,Male Half-Orc Bandit," Howard Jackal for the most part of his life he has been a bandit. While never being successful or even very deadly he has always been a nuisance. His bandit group named the Jackals has fallen more times than people would care to count, but he always reforms it with young enthusiastic men. It seems that he has a terrible ambition of becoming a bandit of great renown, but instead is more of a figure of bad luck in the region he lives. The greatest feat of banditry the Jackals ever pulled was stealing a merchants wagon and kidnapping the merchant, but he took very little from the wagon and even let the merchant leave with his wagon after a day. As it seems Howard Jackal and his Jackals are just young men wanting the thrill of being bandit. If you ever run into him you are in for a long day, and you might even have a lighter coin-purse"
Spike Jackson,Male Human Frontiersman," Spike Jackson is a man who from a young age decided to head out of the kingdom's main land to live his dream of being a frontiersmen. He grew a rugged beard and became incredible at riling up natives in the unexplored region. His goal on this frontier was to make sure that none of the natives would be in sight. He gave a proposition to every group of native species he met, either leave his king's land or die by his sword. Though remarkably hospitable to non-humans and half-bloods he will work with them if they agree in driving out the native population from the land."
Molly Brevas,Female Human Priestess," Molly Brevas is a teenage girl who comes from the slums of the city. Her parents have forced her to spend most of her time at the local church, so she stays away from the crime ridden slum. The resentful of being made to volunteer she remains there cleaning and learning the faith in the church. Answering all requests made towards her with a sigh she continues what she sees as a boring life working in the church. The positive she sees to her volunteer work is that she probably would not be mugged like in other parts of the slums."
Hlevar Silverton,Male Dwarf Silversmith," Hlevar Silverton is a crafts-dwarf that like the rest of his family before him specialize in crafting with silver. Whether it is an ornate jewelry, or making silver arms and armor. Hlevar and the Silvertons before can make silver become whatever their customer requires. Hlevar himself is a dwarf set in his family tradition and refuses any assistance in his craft and preforms it like all his ancestors before him. The biggest change Hlevar brought to Silverton family was moving to the surface and selling his crafts more openly than his family before."
Fatts Corkin,Male Halfling Millionaire," A bitter, old, corpulent halfling worth his weight in gold. Fatts has a stranglehold on the town or village where he lives. He secretly controls the government with his sizable monetary reserves. He talks like Pigma from Starfox 64. EDIT: 9 more coming later."
"Keruntilogrivex ""Runt""","Male goblin peddler, spy, thief"," Runt is an aggressively friendly and obsequious traveling goblin merchant. He never travels anywhere without his crammed wagon of merchandise. He has worked long and hard to earn the trust necessary to establish a sales route along the towns and homesteads of the frontier. Along with his legitimate business he operates as the hub of a ring of smugglers and thieves. He's not above murder or thievery, but he chooses his victims very carefully, and hides their bodies even more carefully. As far as anyone can tell, he's just an honest peddler making an honest buck selling honest merchandise."
Raina,Female Elf Bard," Braided long auburn hair, blue eyes, tall and lean, no markings or piercings. Patient with the party to some extent, generally pleasant but ultimately has a hard time fully trusting the group with her needs. Wants to travel the world and capture stories. Is third in line for the elven throne, but has an older brother who she dotes on. He is generally much more sheltered and oblivious. Doesn't drink, doesn't stay up late, doesn't go out much in the evenings, but will accompany the party if asked. Has a soft spot for old people, including old dwarves."
Urin,Male Dwarf Merchant," A horribly ugly, yet incredibly cheerful dwarf. Urin has ties to most major factions and a surprising amount of minor factions throughout the lands he travels. He has a thing for Half-Elves, is incredibly clueless when it comes to the significance of his products, (once mistaking an abstract representation of Orcus for an Amulet of Bahamut) and doesn't seem to have much business sense. Oftentimes he'll show his wares in small, poor villages that couldn't hope to afford any of his magic rarities, leading many to wonder if he even needs the coin."
Aedonel Redcloak,Male Elf Wizard," An arrogant elven wizard who wishes to demonstrate his arcane prowess to any willing to listen or watch. He travels the world as a performer and mercenary. He doesn't enjoy fighting, but he does covet wealth and arcane power. He is liable to attempt contests of skill with other visibly skilled spellcasters."
Omnibus Omberstien,Female Human Knight," A noble human knight who serves her liege-lord loyally, and often preemptively. She is liable to hunt down potential trouble before it even becomes trouble. This has been known to lead to both accolades and condemnation from the nobility, but her liege-lord has tolerated it so far. She is mildly famous in her home region."
Zonia Ironmoss,Female Dwarven Cleric," A disgraced Tempest cleric who is seeking to regain her lost honor. She is focused and strong-willed, but lacks confidence during critical moments. She misses her family, and thinks the only way to see them again is to fix the mistakes she made, or make up for them."
"Miss ""Manticore"" Milesley",Female Halfling Rogue," A notorious halfling thief, she is known for both her peppy, friendly demeanor, and her propensity for effective, brutal violence. She uses a dagger and combat, and always seems to have another up her sleeve. She is wanted in several cites, but definitely has no trouble finding more people to rob."
John Anderson,Male Human Guard," A relaxed town guard in a small rural town, Anderson is less interested in hunting evil than simply keeping the peace. He is a family man who simply doesn't want any trouble for his town, and is willing to tolerate adventurer-types as long as they spend their gold without causing problems."
Urth,Male Goblin Sorcerer," Garth's elder brother, Urth is a rare Goblin with political ambition. He may be a petty warlord now, but he is clever and charismatic, and seeks to unite all goblinoids under a single banner, to crush the humanoid races and loot their treasures."
Garth,Male Goblin Rogue," Urth's younger brother, what Garth lacks in charisma, he makes up for in sadism. As Urth's right-hand man, he does much of the head-kicking necessary to keep a goblin horde in line. He is feared by all local goblins, and more than a few local humanoids."
Janus Timley,Male Half-Orc Barbarian Mobster," Janus is usually a ruthless, efficient, terribly refined mob boss. He puts on airs, and refuses all but the finest in food, wine, and women. He also hides something terrible. The eye of Gruumsh has looked long and hard upon this Half-Orc, leading him to fly into terrifying rages if the wrong buttons are pushed (his heritage, for one thing). He carries a cane, which he uses as a greatclub when he rages."
Sharaa Silversword,Female Half-Elf Ranger (Lycanthrope)," Silversword is a famed hunter of monsters whose prowess is famous to local villages and woodsmen. However, she hides the fact that many of her narrow victories are as a result of her lycanthropic curse. The enhanced strength and speed come in handy when fighting the monsters of the forest alone, but she has claimed a terrible number of victims on the way. She wishes she could be cured, but fears for her life too much to mention it to anyone."
Percival Aberdeen The Third,Male Gnome War Cleric," Percival hails from a jolly family of gnomish inventors, who he is violently embarrassed by. To him, the greatest joy is to be found on the battlefield, the home of true invention and uncertainty. He is not well known by many (he has left his home far behind), but seeks the thrill of fair contests of warfare wherever he can find it."
Skrillex the Enchanter,Male Gnome Enchanter," A kindly elder has a bald head with a long white beard, he's old, hunched, the works. He is a simple enchanter, often granting +1 bonuses or elemental type bonuses to travelers and adventurers. He has nothing to do with Skrillex (the musician) from our world. He gets frustrated anytime adventurers ask him if he ""drops the bass"" or ""enchants people's soul with sound"" or other such crap. Often, he'll hike his enchanting prices for people who ask such idiotic questions."
Seran Misherral,Female Elven Commander/Bard," A young slender figure with fair skin and blond hair (as most elves tend to be). She started her life as a bard, traveling from city to city spreading cheer and learning all kinds of valuable information. During  she was drafted into the military and lead into combat. Using clever magic and penchant for inspiring troops, she was able to lead a lost and recently leaderless squad fight it's way from behind enemy lines. Quickly she was promoted to real ranks of leadership, of which she rose higher soon enough. As it turns out, being a clever bard is incredibly useful in war-time. You know all kinds of ""useless"" trivia about your enemy, you better knowing how to think like them, and you have a plethora of unexpected magic tricks up your sleeves."
Richard Gavel,Male Half-elf Carpenter," Richard is a younger male working the carpentry trade. He always carries a small red gem shard of some sort. He claims to not carry it for any particular reason, he just thinks it looks kinda cool so he keeps it with him. The one time it got stolen from him, he was kinda miffed, but not particularly upset. It was anonymously returned to him when the would-be thief discovered the gem lacked any real value."
Mackrel Crackle,Male Halfling Chef, Mackrel is a simple chef who likes to pick up exotic spices from traveling adventurers. He offers discounted lodging and food prices for anyone who brings him spices.
Bruthias Wainwright,Male Human Playboy, A rich business owner who spends his days partying around with beautiful women. He spends his nights sleeping in his mansion.
Regand Algeer,Male Gnome Trapper," A hunter-trapper who, strangely, wears regal clothing even while out hunting. His regal hunter clothes are more muted colors, but still brighter than you'd expect of a hunter."
Captain Ger'Kro Mysl'gat,Male Elf Sailor," A young elf in his early hundreds. He was abused and called ""old man"" by his previous captain and crew. One night, when they stepped off the ship, he used crew supplies and money to hire a crew of his own and set sail. He now goes from city to city hosting ""dock parties"" whereupon citizens enter the ship to enjoy a good party."
Relic,Male Teifling Guard," Relic works dangerous night patrols, typically preferring to walk the city outer walls or traverse the more shady parts of town. No one knows why he goes by the name 'Relic' and he prefers not to share his real name (though he has admitted to having a different true name than 'Relic'). Locals are familiar and comfortable with Relic's teifling heritage."
Enpy Seenaim,Male Gnome Potionmaster," He is a lone salesmen stationed on standard travel paths. He crafts all sorts of useful potions to be sold to adventurers. He lies about every tenth potion or so, completely fabricating the use and ability as he sells the potion."
Damion Fireheart,Male Human Bartender," A retired adventurer, he opened up his own tavern/Inn, the Knife Tip Inn. Stays fit by fighting in the local arena, may be champion there. Motto is ""Fight, Drink, Sleep"" His surname comes from an old legend his family could preform fire magic without being spellcasters (which may or may not be true)."
Gopnik Foulstain,Male Half-Orc Sewer Worker," Pleasant in demeanor, if not in odour, Gopnik might be the only person keeping the sewer system in Pipe's End from overflowing and fouling up the town. If only there were more strangely long-lived half-orcs with two centuries of plumbing expertise bumping about the sewers."
Felegon Blade-of-Dew,Male Eladrin Mercenary," You offer Felegon a place by the fire, but he politely smiles and puts up his hand to refuse. As you inspect the coat, you realize that it isn't drenched in rain; an elaborate illusion makes it constantly appear slick with water. There is a practiced reserve to this seemingly young Eladrin, and you wonder what other illusions he maintains."
Hipto Syliloke,Male Gnome Underboss," Hipto giggles, as gnomes are wont to do, but in an unexpectedly gruff tone for one his size. In many ways, Hipto appears to be more dwarven than gnomish, covered in dense fat and coarse hair. His sharp, Feyish features betray his true nature. He tells you he knows where to find your lost companions, but it'll be a hefty fee: Hipto trades only in rare Gnomish artifacts."
Chainmaker,Agender Tiefling Vigilante," Nobody took the child seriously, not until they started donning a mask and righting wrongs in the town of Revenant Bay. Chainmaker barely acknowledges your presence, never breaking their solemn vigil. You see their back tense ever so slightly in anticipation as you reveal details about the job. In spite of the somber disguise, there is no masking the reckless enthusiasm of youth."
Eva Slick,Female Changeling Informant," There is only one way to recognize Eva Slick - a secret known only to those she trusts most closely. Somewhere in her disguises is a small mark of the god Pelor, to whom she has devoted her life after being reformed. You knew her before she was locked up in the Solar Redoubt, and wonder what happened to rob her voice of its original luster and melody."
Hansa Vel,Female Human Courtesan," She is not happy to see you here, let alone alive. Like a crimson star, Hansa rose from the alleyways of Karkenbad and into the bedchambers of its Crown Prince, climbing atop the bodies of her closest friends. You would not come to her if it was not completely necessary; there is no better assurance of that fact than the dearth of evidence you have assembled to blackmail her with."
Yoldin Pippernock III,Male Halfling Gentleman Farmer," He saunters over to you, his entire body rolling and undulating. You could swear that, were it not for the hand he kept tight against his belly, Yoldin would simply burst in an eruption of jelly. Grasping his little, sausage fingers in an all-too-wet handshake, the master of Pippernock farms leads you through his famous plantation. The workers defer to this impossibly rotund man, and yet behind the smiles and courtesies is a wasting hunger, fixed pointedly on Yoldin's wrinkled, scrunched-up face."
Felt the Dog,Female Half-Elf Beggar," Nobody seems to remember a time before Felt was Felt. She stumbled into the village, eyes fixed open in a permanent, vacant stare, and began barking and shouting odd, short phrases - things like squirrel, fetch, and bone. Henceforth, she was Felt the Dog, good only for begging and the cruel amusement of others. When she places a paper with the word ""HELP"" messily scrawled upon it, you look back at her, only to recognize for the first time the alarm in her nearly empty eyes."
Ennarius Belechonia,Male Elf (Rakshasa) Gentleman," For a gentleman, Ennarius seems to have an oddly difficult time manipulating cutlery and working doorknobs. Regardless, you cannot help but feel warm and alive in his presence - generous, kind, and altogether lovely chap. Only time you've seen him thrown off kilter is when someone mentions his income, which is a closely guarded secret. He only ever mentions the mines he operates, for which he recruits when in town."
Rosaria Bone-Break-Crunch,Female Minotaur Scholar," A man walks into the library, and minutes later comes running out, screaming. You ready your sword and burst in, to find a massive, bull-headed woman sitting quietly, flipping through the pages of a book. She looks at your sword and rolls her eyes, droning out her monotone welcome speech for those visiting the Greenlake Academy."
Leona Fleetskin,"Female, Changeling, Prostitute"," Well, here's my contribution! Might not be the best, but these are all off the top of my head so keep that in mind when you giggle at them. More Barbarian than Wizard, Krug has only the slightest touch of magic about him but desperately seeks to associate himself with civilized Wizards and Sorcerers. He travels from place to place telling fortunes for a pittance. He does this by gargling a bag of runes covered in Draconic script and spitting them one by one into a bowl then reading the future based on the way they land. These fortunes are very specific but usually about totally insignificant things like the hair colour of the next person you're going to meet or how many trees you'll see tomorrow. A handsome and charming middle aged man. Lon jokes that he obtained his name due to the combination of his dark complexion and good luck in games of chance. In reality he uses several enchanted items of clothing and jewellery to draw in and swindle the patrons of small town taverns, big city bars and everywhere in between. A 16 year old Changeling girl making the most out of her natural shape changing abilities and avoiding the mistrust most people have of her people. Leona has set herself up in the identity of a powerful Sorceress fallen on hard times. Using her ""magic"" to take the form of anyone her customers bring a detailed enough picture of/introduce her to. A massive step up from her humble beginnings as a street urchin Leona is enjoying the status her money has brought her and spends recklessly on anything shiny and pretty enough. However, despite this shallowness she secretly donates large sums to the church she and the other homeless children used to sleep in during the harsh winters."
Jzarkey Padfoot,Male Catfolk Shop Owner," A short catfolk with a tail as long as his body. Fully prehensile and capable of lifting as much as his arms. Catnip addict, but it isn't obvious. He's willing to barter his wares for catnip if the PCs figure out that he's got a substance abuse problem. Has a collection of magical balls of yarn. Sells survival supplies like a ranger or rogue would use, including traps. He's got a basement in his shop that's protected by the very traps he sells."
Scoggin Longmore,Male Satyr Musician/Bard," Travels from town to town. He is a lore expert about most everything though it wouldn't seem like it to look at him. He's introverted, except when it's performance time. He sings songs about things that couldn't possibly have happened though a sense motive check shows he's usually telling the truth. Has a magical set of panpipes. He runs at the first sign of trouble."
Dr. Aveneros Charles Ula,Male Eladrin Vampire Magus," He's an avid art collector and despite being a total recluse, cannot resist following up on rumors of new artwork in town. He's charming, well-dressed, and aristocratic. Not the least bit pretentious. His appearance does not suggest that he's a vampire. Once a year, he hosts a gala for the territory's elite in order to show off his collection. He sometimes considers strange and rare creatures for his collection. He's on a 123-year mission to bring his wife back from permanent death. His castle contains an immense library of knowledge about the planes."
Callidus The Bold,Male Human Wizard," Callidus created an underground sanctuary for a group of people needing to escape a cataclysmic event several millennia ago. He had planned on only needing to use the sanctuary for 20 years, but was instead locked away by his own mistake for much longer. He's gone cookoo crazy and is only alive because of a ring of sustenance and a time dilation spell cast on the sanctuary. He has a hard time believing that the outside is safe but is willing to help the players with anything they want if they successfully convince him to leave."
Jarrell Blacksteel,Male Human Blacksmith," A gruff blacksmith, married to a sorceress. He is often found gnawing on strips of metal and has a somewhat arrogant demeanor. Once you get to know him he can be quite likeable, even though he is supremely confident in his blacksmithing skills to the point of annoyance to others."
Mariel Blacksteel,Female Human Enchantress," Married to a blacksmith named Jarrell, she handles the enchanting part of the business. Very friendly and charming, she makes sure her customers don't get turned away by her husband's attitude. Her favorite part of the job is testing young sorcerers by selling them magical items they can't quite handle yet to see what happens. Sometimes the results are disastrous, but she doesn't seem to mind."
Charles du Fromage,Human Male Innkeeper/Ex-Adventurer," A jolly fellow who has opened a tavern called the Laughing Pancake after retiring. He is friendly and open (on the surface, at least) and serves the house special, pancakes, every morning. To get some extra money in his pocket and excitement in his life he has become an information dealer on the side."
Trinkle,Gnome Male Wizard," A timid and socially awkward gnome who was being tutored by the owner of a magical item shop. His teacher has since disappeared, leaving him to fend for himself and the shop, now aptly named 'Trinkle's Trinkets'. He tries to keep things running on pure enthusiasm."
Lord Vaskeron,Half-elf Male Noble," He had a pampered childhood, but it didn't last very long. After his family fell from grace he worked long and hard to get back where he belongs. Nowadays he is an influential man and he and his family are back to their old status. He is very much concerned with appearances. Occasionally, he performs a 'good deed', but he does those things for acknowledgement and attention only, not out of the goodness of his heart. He enjoys parties and spicy sausages."
Anastasia,Dhampir Female Adventurer," Obsessed by knowledge, she has gone to great lengths to acquire ancient relics and artifacts. She will hire fellow adventurers to help her get what she wants, and discard them once she is done, unless they are genuinely interesting people (in her eyes). Few academics rival her practical knowledge on matters dungeoneering-related and she can take care of herself in a pinch."
Boyd Bellamew,Male Human Bowyer," Boisterous and bold, he's a hard working bow maker. A bigger fellow, his belly bounces with laughter at his own crass humor. Runs a shop, called ""Boyd Bellamew's Bow-building Barn""."
Sigre Copper,Male Dwarf Bartender," Stocky barkeep at the ""Miner's Fortune"", a gambling den frequented by local miners. Prefers his brewing to talking to people. Once you ask about his craft, you can't shut him up."
Brienne Aryn,Female Human Miner," Strong build, calloused hands, she's the head of Silverkeep Mining Ltd. Her sharp eyes and sharper tongue balance her otherwise nondescript face. Has a troubled relationship with her sister, Reini."
Marcus Strong-arm,Male Human Bodyguard (retired)," Worked for a traveling merchant to protect his spice caravan until a dragon decided his standard diet lacked flavor. Took a chunk of shrapnel to the back of the leg and hasn't been able to walk right since. In his 60s, with shock-white hair and a blunt attitude. Just because he can't beat you in a fight anymore doesn't mean he won't try."
Biddi Hilltopple,Female Halfling Secretary," Small (even for a halfling) with short blonde hair. Her job takes her away from the grassy hills and outdoors she prefers, so she resents her job. As a secretary, she's less like Pam from The Office and more like someone at the DMV; she isn't paid enough to care. Brief description of their appearance, personality, and quirks (about 4 sentences is enough)."
Roren Brightborn,Male Dwarf Cleric, A righteous dwarf with a gnarled appearance. He has a sparse and scraggly beard that reek of rotten pork. He is quick to lend a helping hand but fails to aid in any meaningful way because of his incompetence.
Tancreed; Knight of the First Queen,Male Human Paladin," He wears a wide brimmed hat with a large crimson plume, sports a tightly curled mustache, and carries a that ends with three points. When he speaks he often pinches the ends of his mustache, smirking with only one side of his mouth. He is Lawful Neutral, and showers praise and even gifts upon those that uphold the same reverence for the law and justice."
Ulfina Pembergallow,Female Half-Dwarf-Half-Gnome Rogue/Merchant, Ulfina is shunned by the gnomes for having stone bones and a reckless attitude but despised by the dwarves for looking and sounding too much like a gnome. She has learned to deal with this but forsaking both heritages and staging as a perpetually teenage human girl who is sly as a fox and wise beyond her years.
Corina; The Silken Mage,Female Elf Mage, Mistress of knowledge and horrible forgetfulness. She has mastery knowledge of most scholarly pursuits but has trouble forming lasting short term memories ever since 5 years ago during an alchemical incident with an apprentice.
Leivivik De'Ma,Male Human Wizard, This uptight wizard with a scar on his cheek is followed by three apprentices. One of the apprentices will try to keep speaking over Leivivik. This angers Leivivik and he has no hesitation to beat him in public for it. Leivivik will also snap at anyone who talks down to him.
Rass Honskeller,Male Human Wanderer, A friendly traveler who has seen many lands Fights with spell and sword when provoked Searches for truths in a web of lies that led to the demise of his friends Little does he know that he was but a pawn in anothers game.
Astor Rilem,Male Human Shock Jockey," The mage of cheap tricks and an ace up his sleeve Rilem is never caught off guard Hunts for anything connected to the long lost city of Sentinum, The City of Secrets where he was ""Born"" His shocking good looks and silver tongue get him out of trouble every time He flees open confrontation but is effective when it comes to combat thanks to his preparedness"
Vess Bantey,Female Human Scoundrel," More man than Hugo the Beast yet uses trickery and guile at every step Enjoys boasting about her dueling prowess by taking on multiple foes (Traps are still fair, right?) Occasionally hunts for artifacts that hold long forgotten secrets Searching for a lost lover who she fears is dead"
Matches,Male Human (age mid 30's) Village Idiot," HO! HI! I'm Matches! When I grow up I'm going to be a Monster! Topaz the pretty lady is my friend! She works at The Stiff One, but I'm not allowed in there. When I grow up I'm going to be a Monster!"
Bartenderson,Male Human(?) Bartender/mayor/manager," Human(?) with black greased hair and a 1940s-esque radio announcer voice. He appears to be in his mid to late 30s. Has a habit of arriving before the party at the first Inn they enter ready to serve drinks and news of whatever strange goings on in the region. He always has some sort of work for the party with a cut of the pay of course for all the legwork he does. Speaking of legwork, no one has ever confirmed to have seen Bartenderson's legs. They are always either behind the bar or some convenient furniture yet no one ever comments on this fact until after leaving the bar and by then it would be embarrassing to ask about it."
Radolf Hiln,Theives' Cant," Radolf is a Human Preist of insert appropriate deity. He is jovial, plump, and his brown wavy hair is balding in the center of his head. He doesn't try to hide it. He is the very epitome of someone unassuming."
Kingsley,male tiefling wanderer," He is very socially awkward and talks as though he's a nobleman from a long time ago. In actuality he was a king right at the end of the tiefling empire who disappeard just before the empire collapsed. An adapt magic user his power was heavily coveted until he was sealed away by jealous rebels. For centuries he was locked away in a long forgotten tomb until recently when a naive magic initiate tried to form a warlock pact with him, freeing him in the process. He now travels from place to place in disguise with his protege attempting to rebuild the might of his lost empire."
Sam McHale,oomph," On the day she left, she took Sam aside and said something he'll remember forever: ""Hail Hydra"" ""When you're done in the dirt, come find me in the clouds."" And ever since, Sam has fervently desired to fly, frequenting his father's workshop as he tries to put together any apparatus that will take him off the ground."
Hanz Irongate,Male. Human. Guard," Hanz is by no means a small man. At around six and a half feet tall and weighing 235 pounds, he looms over all those who pass by his station. He is a patriot, to a fault. The government is completely infallible in his eyes. By nature, he is a calm man. His life is quiet since the wars ended. He goes home to his wife every night, and only rarely heads to the tavern with his fellow guardsmen after their shift. He earned the name irongate when he and the 25 men under his control held the city gate against an entire warband of goblins. This decorated war hero refused to take a place among the cities elite, choosing instead to continue protecting his portcullis."
Kilroy Fitzpatrick,exactly," Kilroy will give you a hefty discount, but the discounted item is cursed. Whenever a player uses the cursed item, the DM may roll a d20. On a 1, the DM rolls on the Sorcerer's Wild Magic table to determine a random effect. Depending on player group personality, cursed items may actually be priced up."
Loren,Middle aged male farmer," An alcoholic, Sleds has worked on a steadily less and less impressive list of ships. Currently unemployed after being put to shore by his last crew for excessive drunkenness while on duty, he's in whatever port city you choose unwillingly. Not a penny to his name, but somehow finds a way to come up with enough cash for the next drink. Got his name after a drunken dare led him to take a ride down the main street on an empty cask of beer during a particularly muddy and rainy night. He wound up losing control rather predictably and smashed into a patrol of the town guard. Two guardsmen wound up with broken bones and he earned himself a week in a jail cell. The name stuck. Loren is a bitter man who looks older than his 45 years. A sour personality brought on in part by a lifelong grudge against his parents for giving him what he feels is a woman's name, he holds a grudge against his wife as well who named his daughter after him when she gave birth while he was in town on an errand. Very much a beta, he's the type to grumble to himself and talk a big game, but when it comes to confrontation he's the first to back down and cower. With only a few stained teeth to his name, he chews tobacco or whatever similar thing exists in your world, but would never touch alcohol and judges those who do rather harshly--but quietly and privately."
Phill Burgimond,male human accountant," Phill has a black combover and a plaid shirt with wooden buttons. His favorite pants are his brown cotton ones because he can slip and you can't see the mud on them too much. Phill is the accountant of the Oak and Willow bank. He kind of hates his job, but stays there because it has a good retirement plan and good dental. Phill doesn't know how to use swords, or bows. His magic is in advanced algebra and financial math."
Willow harpspear,female elf Shepard," Willow has dirty blond hair, and tan skin. She wears a potato sack dress and shoes made of sheep skin. They're actually really comfortable She like being a Shepard. Her sheep are either named William or Wendy, depending on sex. Willows favorite food is Shepard pie. It's just normal pie that she made."
Rachelle Tompus,female gnome story teller," Rachelle has long, braided gray hair. Her face is covered in laugh lines and wrinkles. Her eyes distant and pale. She used to adventure. Plunder dungeons and caves, slay dragons and feral creatures. She went with her husband, Bargus Tompus. Bargus was a dwarf that had met her while helping her explore a cave rumored to have undead lurking. After many years, Bargus died to infection and disease after being ambushed by many many hobgoblins. After his passing, Rachelle retired, selling magical gear and trinkets she had collected over time. She keeps her husbands sword in his memory. She now tells stories of her adventures to those willing to hear."
Sigmund Heartkeeper,male elf guard," Sigmund is short for elves. He keeps his hair very short, and his clothes simple and modest. He is quiet, but when talking, is loud and brash, and is not afraid to speak up for himself or his friends. He is guard for the city of elves. Another face in the crowd in the watch tower. While proficient in most weapons, he prefers the longbow. He is able to keep his head in battle, and often is looked at as a leader by his comrades. It is true that he is quite capable of leading, but has no intention to unless assigned to be. He does what he's told, and gets his work done."
Marren Oakenshield,male dwarf ghost hunter," A long brown beard and mustache are the only hair on his face, a flowing chain male suit covers his torso. With a backpacked lined with potions and tools, and a great sword of ghost touch marren isn't afraid to walk into any haunted house or a abandoned catacomb. Being finicky for details, he is careful to look for traps, and make sure anything he does is done well. Along with his great sword, marren is armed to the teeth with daggers, maces, hammers, throwing knives, darts, a short bow, and even small spitting needles in case precision is needed or he can't use his hands."
Catherine,female drow thief," Abandoned as a child, Catherine knows nothing of her parents or last name. Simply that the dress she possessed had the name ""Catherine"" sewn into the collar. Catherine grew up on the streets of the overland. She was often bullied, being the only drow around. She didn't put up with it though, plotting revenge. She was careful in her spite, and figured the best way to get back at her bullies would be to turn them against each other. She would ""relocate"" things. Things that would go mostly unnoticed, and turn up in places they would be found. Her craft eventually wound her up in jail, where she would talk with other inmates. She learned the craft of lock picking, and her own natural ingenuity and perhaps a lack of self control led her to breaking out. Word got around. Mainly amongst other thrives and criminals. Her skillfully quick and careful hands managed to attract employers. Not soon after, she found herself working for the thieves guild. Working her way up in the ranks, she is determined to one day get into a position of great power, but she's not quite there yet."
Carolyn Fissure,Female half orc tavern fighter," Carolyn was raised with pink fleshies, but that did not deter her from the life style of a bar fighter. She used to puts bets on herself and fights for the coin. After word got around about her strength and ability to keep liquor down, she got a manager in a boxingesque job. Tons of other fighters come around to throw fists in bars, and so far, she can brag king and queen, beating any challenger of any race that has come her way. Her strength is help, but her wit backs it up tenfold. From using bottles to trip opponents to ripping off loin clothes and slamming them in their embarrassment. Carolyn fights dirty, and effectively, making her a dangerous opponent. Carolyn wears modest leather gear, a necklace of her opponents lots teeth, and a red flower in her braided hair"
Jeremy Tash,Male Tiefling shop keeper," Jeremy wears a green apron when he's working, and is often found with a necklace with a red glass eye connected to it. The eye is actually supposed to be the eye of a demon, but it's really just a neat looking marble he found. When he's not helping a customer at the shop, he is usually playing cards with his brother, Tijiak. When off the clock, Jeremy is usually getting stoned behind the old windmill Jeremy's horns are ram like, spiraling backwards. He has had a little golden tip made for them, and refers to them as his ""bling"" He also often nuzzles his horn against a girl, and asks if she's getting ""horny"" with him. Jeremy is everything a stereotypical stoner teen is."
Marry Lined,Female elf Lich," Marry isn't actually evil. She became a lich as a promise, to guard the temple of Ehlonna (or whatever nature god you may have to suit your campaign). She made the promise to her dad, his dying wishes to be for her, and her next of kin, to watch over the temple. The only problem that Marry faced, was that she was infertile. In a fit of hysteria, Marry began to research necrotic arcana in order to build her phylactery; a small statue of Ehlonna made of gold, deep inside the temple. She has only recently died, her skin is still fairly neat and her eyes not rotten away too much. At first glance, she may even appear normal. She plans to keep herself looking as close to alive as possible, and may go to great lengths to keep up with appearances in order to maintain an inviting presence"
Thomas Ragar,Male human Sorcerer," Tommy is actually 7. Despite the fact that Tommy is 7, he can somehow conjure spells like ""Waves of exhaustion"" and ""Symbol of fear"" (Or whatever high level necromancy spells your edition has). It's strange enough that a 7 year old has the power of champions, but the fact that he can also preform necromatic arts has run his family out of town. He has yet to raise a human, but he spends a strange amount of time around the corpses of dead vermin..."
Drachog - The Sword of Maglubiet,Hobgoblin Paladin (Dark Knight) of Maglubiet," He has united the clans of his people, and now wages a holy war against the civilised lands. Maglubiet has blessed him. In the blood of a thousand sacrifices to this most dark god, Drachog was blessed to never truly die. He wields the Sword of the Ukeldun, a wickedly sharp greatsword and blade of the last blessed of Maglubiet. He is swift to anger, a strong and eloquent speak."
The Old Man,"Seems to be an old male human, Swordsman, Bard, Adventurer, Mysterious Figure"," No one is entirely sure who he is, but stories of his presence at some of the greatest events history are common. He is recognised by an old sword in a battered scabbard, a patchwork cloak, and a fine gold leaf harp. He will disappear as quickly as he coming, usually offering cryptic advise, or a song before doing so."
Mistress Martilude Quin,"Old Female, Merchant, Scholar, Entrepreneur"," A woman who has risen from nothing. A simple scholar in geology she used her knowledge of minerals and stones to make her merchant empire. She has little interest in politics, but does care for the working people of the city and kingdom. She has little time for the lazy, and no time for those who will not seek to help others. She is not attractive."
Rund Oxbeard,"Dwarf Male, Paladin of Dorf (God of Drink and Celebration)"," Rund wields the might Keghammer, a two handed warhammer, with a vial of Dorf's own ale in the centre. Runds holy quest is to find a Tankard of Everpour, a magical artefact that will pour eternally any non magical drink, from water to fine ale. Once he finds this most sacred artefact, he will set up a Temple Inn to his God, where the finest drink will be served, the greatest tales told. Rund is a strong fighter, his brown beard will groomed. He is armoured in fine plate, that tells tales of Dorf's clerics and champions. Rund has a fear of spiders."
Vola Redshanks,"Female Half-Orc, 2nd in command of the Wandering Blades, Deadly fighter"," She is the keeper of the coin chest for this mercenary band. He twin swords are always at her side, and she is quick to use them. She is garbed in leathers, with dyed red chaps. She got the name after two sunrises of fighting in the place that would come to be known as the bloody past. Her dark green skin, is scarred heavily, and covered in many elegant and crude tattoos. She has luscious black hair that she takes a secret pride in. She is a woman of business when needed, but once she is off duty she will drink, gamble, and brawl with the best of them."
Gormund Arkunsu or Gormund Silverskin,Male Silver Dragonborn Ranger," He came to the far reaches of the north many years ago. He now rangers the mountains, forests and ice wastes of this harsh land. He has taken the cold into his blood. He wears a fine snowbear cloak, that makes him near invisible in the snow. He wields a self crafted longbow, and carries a variety of different arrows depending on the hunt. He runs a tannery and game shop, and offers to guide and teach those who can pay the price. He never drinks, or spends his time in Inns. He enjoys the company of others and is eager to share tales. He has a voice in his head, Icefang, who sometimes whispers for him to do dark and horrible things. He has been able to ignore it for now."
Brunswick Ramsbottom the Great All Might Archivist,Old male human and long suffering archivist for the Honourable Order of Mappers," Brunswicks title was given to him by the head of his order, Bree Greenbottle and female halfling. He is a lover of detail and order, and fines nothing better in taking the mad drawings and finds of the order and categorising them and adding them to the guilds massive collection. He wears simple trousers and shirt, with a belt covered in pouches for inks, parchment, and all thing cartographical. He loves children, and has a large family with many children and grandchildren of his own. He is very serious when working. He used to have a gambling problem."
King Dosilion,"Half Elf, born royalty, negotiator and jouster."," He has the best of elven and human looks. Fine delicate features, with the hint of masculine brawn, and thick golden hair and beard. He is a homosexual but has a wife and born children as is his duty, to his line, his kingdom and his people. He is loyal to his wife, who knows he is gay, and has never slept with anyone else since they were wed. He enjoys the fine sport of jousting, and travels to many kingdoms to negotiate trade deals and take part in tourneys. He is quick to decide a course of action, and is hard to be swayed from it. He loves beauty and art."
El Mortson,"Young female human, daugther of a successful woodsman and lumber merchant"," El wishes she had been born a boy. She is stronger, faster, and taller then any other boy in her town, but because she is a girl she can't do what she wants. She wants to be a lumberjack, a woodswoman, and eventually take over her fathers buisness. She secretly goes out and cuts down trees, and tends the woods when she can. She stands at over six feet tall, and is very very strong. she has mouse brown hair, and a pretty face. Her father wants her to become a lady. She has run away from schools and teachers of this five times. She has a fear of Goblins, after a near death experience with a raiding party that did kill her mother."
"Shar God of Murder, The Cruel Bastard, Bringer of Tears","Neutral Evil Deity, spawn of the Demon King Asmodeus"," Shar rarely shows himself, preffering to cloak himself in the darkness between stars if he takes a physical form. He is the son of Asmodeus after he raped and later killed a god of peace in the last astral war. Shar was cut from his dying mothers womb and thrown into the darkest reaches of Asmodeus' domain. Here he grew, and began to tred the mortal realms, bringing assassins, poisoners, those who cloak themselves in evil deeds, to his message. He blessed them, and as he gained more followers he grew stronger. He find glory in the elegance of the cold kill, and hungers for wealth and power. He has many hidden shrines scattered across the realms of all peoples. He does not hate Asmodeus, he hates nothing, but will do all he can to grow in power."
Dr. T'risza Desek,Female Drow Thief," She has short figure with long white hair. She misses the rest of her family, that was either exiled or imprisoned. She lives in Thieves' District (or Thieves' Guild) in a building that looks half blown up and uninhabited for at least last 20 years. She loves running on top of rooftops at night alone."
M.I.K.,Sexless Warforged Guard," He can't fit between ordinary people with his cold mechanical voice, and so he doesn't even try anymore. Often he prefers to observe situation unless called, and sometimes he even pretends to have no consciousness. His armor is magitech armor, that helps him with moving stealthily, perception at night and in fights. If he's submerged into water, or in an area where the magic doesn't work, he's unconscious."
Finom Lackman,Male Human Merchant," There's nothing special about his appearance, but there's a dark secret beneath it. He wants to sell his goods as quickly as possible, because he's been cursed. Anything he sells rots a short while afterwards. That's why he gets so easily into problems, and he's used to it."
"Galadir, the Foremost Bureaucraft of (Insert City Name here)",Male High Elf Bureaucraft," He mans his desk as if it was a bunker. No one goes in our out of the keep without first going through him, and filling out various forms in triplicate. He looks down on anyone who take shortcuts when filling out said forms. It is very rare for someone to get through Galadir without first spending hours going through the bureaucratic mess that he has created to get anything done within his city."
Scabs the Wizard,Male Elven Beggar," Forgotten most of his spells at the ripe age of 750. Brings an iron pot with him everywhere to cook with. Was once on a search for lichdom and domination His age and senile behavior makes him harmless, just don't get him to remember!"
Lyric Lydia,"Female, Half-Elf, Storyteller"," Wishes fame and grandeur from telling stories to princes and kings. Wants to marry into wealth. Creative but a poor memory, makes up the stories as she goes, creating unintended consequences and her near poverty. Great skill with a blade but never liked to use it or practice very often. Would make a legendary fighter if she didn't hate fighting so much."
"Ragor Svenson, the Blood Wave",Male Human Retired Berserker," A jolly 65 year old barbarian. He spends his time at home, reminiscing of the good ol' days (raiding and slaying). His beard is wicked long, white, and braided. In the back of his mind, he fears dying at home in bed, without honor."
Lickety-Split MacLonroe,Male Gnome Jockey," A pompous gnome horse jockey. Prides himself as ""the fastest gnome on four legs."" Obsessive about his reputation, Lickety often challenges random civilians on the street. Word on the street: Lickety has a big gambling problem."
Jenny Scrumster,Female Half-elf Drug Dealer," An up and coming drug lord. Jenny raised herself on the streets, befriending a lone myconid hiding in the sewers. Jenny, with the help of her friend, began selling exotic hallucinogenic mushrooms on the black market. Her business is becoming incredibly successful, her 'shrooms even find their way into the hands of powerful politicians."
Violet Kingkiller,Female Human Assassin," A highly trained assassin. Her speciality: regicide. Responsible for over a hundred known assassinations, rulers of all kinds fear Kingkiller. She makes murder easy, the only tricky part, however, is finding her."
Tim,going," However, he really just requires good direction and a committed teacher. Tim could be a great cleric one day. Tim is dutiful, tries his best at anything he does, takes directions very literally, and is nicer than most people."
Doctor McGinBreath,Male Dwarf Cleric/Drunk," Doctor McGinBreath hangs out in the bars and will do questionable things for drinking money. He's not a very good cleric, but he can cast some spells. Also has a tendency to blow his spell slots on Detect Good/Evil, and if he finds an evil person, he points at them and says ""EVIL. EVIL. EVIL. EVIL! EVIIIIIL!"" until they leave the bar."
Vafara,Female Half-Elf Witch," Vafara is an apprentice witch, but she's not that kind of witch, thank you very much. Really, how presumptuous is it of you to assume that all witches are going to curse you and cackle. Vafara is actually a very nice young lady who happens to just be into the witch stuff because it runs in her family, and her aunt(on the human side, of course, her elvish father doesn't approve of any of this witch stuff or even Vafara's existence at all, being a prickly elf) started teaching her some spells, and you know what, it's really none of your business anyway. Personality is snobbish and uptight on the outside, still uptight on the inside, but reasoned and fair, if you aren't giving her shit about the whole witch thing."
Lady Tallis Dulak,Female Human Noble," Lady Dulak gives a lot of money to charity. Everyone knows that, because the Tallis Dulak Home for Poor Children is very well advertised. It's good business, but Tallis actually does like helping poor children, and she can be found at the Home several days out of the week, for a few hours at least, helping children find clothing and shoes that fit them, and handing out free food. At nights, she attends(or hosts) lavish parties where she lets all the other nobles know how terrible they are for being oppressive."
Lieutenant Althaea Naidel,Female Elf Spy," Lt. Naidel joined the army as soon as she was able, her skill with a bow being the best in her village, and her patriotism was unrivaled. As she rose through the ranks, she became known for her ability to take down enemies without making a sound, and she was recruited into the special forces, and later into certain unnamed organizations. She now leads a 4-person infiltration group. She's good at tactics and at being a spy, but not so good at diplomacy. She's cold to outsiders, but to her crew, she's actually kind and warm. They're her kinsmen, after all, and if she doesn't look after them, no one will."
Ugrah Kardson,great, Ugrah only gets mad and starts behaving aggressively if you insult the carpentry of the Kardson line.
Justice,Female Tiefling Protestor," The young tiefling known as Leria was persecuted for the way she looked. Leria didn't think this was fair, since she hadn't done anything wrong. As she grew up, she began to see that discrimination and injustice were everywhere in the world, and it wasn't just tieflings, so she changed her name and set out to make the world a better place by spreading awareness through public displays where she mostly just shouts about injustice and discrimination to anyone who will listen. Justice spends a lot of her time in prison."
Sivashi and Shivari,Female Genasi Druids," These two Genasi druids are twins, both seeking to find balance by obtaining the ability to manifest all of the Genasi elements within themselves. Sivashi seeks to find balance among the elements and find true peace, but Shivari wants to conquer the elements for herself. They parted ways once it was obvious that their philosophies conflict, but people often confuse one for the other. Personalities: very shifting, as they're genasi, but also because they move among elemental manifestations, bringing out different personality traits."
Ivy.,"Female, humanoid, paladin/alchemist."," Rose is a beautiful woman in her mid twenties with blood red hair and emerald green eyes. She does not like to fight very much, but rather just heal her allies and find diplomatic solutions to problems. When one of her allies dies or she gets hurt though, anger overcomes her, and she uses her giant great sword (aptly named thorn) to tear apart those that defile her.   Ivy is the twin sister of rose, and much like rose, uses her potions to buff and heal enemies in battle. She has green hair and green eyes. Rather than try to find diplomatic relations with people, she uses her beauty and deception to get what she wants. She thinks that the brutish ways of her sister are barbaric, preferring to throw poisons at enemies to weaken them."
Stack,'Male' Warforged Blacksmith," A blacksmith specializing in the creation and repair of rare and unique armors. He was trained by a retired Dwarven smith, and imprinted on him to the point of behaving like a dwarf and 'growing' a beard made from metal shavings, fixed to his lower mandible. His odd behavior is looked upon as slightly eccentric but harmless, though he makes quite a mess at the taverns when he attempts to have a few drinks. If called out on not actually being a dwarf, he will insist he's simply wearing a large suit of armor, and will 'prove' it by attempting to remove his head, and complaining that his ""damned helmet latches have stuck again"" when it won't come off."
Orel the 'White Knight',"Human, Male, Knight"," Orel is the somewhat overweight 4th son of respected local lord who followed his father into military service. He cannot understand how he remains single at the ripe old age of 25, despite being such a good guy. All of his female friends are just that, friends, and he will protect them in this dark world of selfish jock-bastards who just want to take advantage of women. Soon, very soon, the ungrateful sluts will finally realise his worth and flock to their real man and recognise a hero of women's rights."
Evangeline (Evan),"Female (Male), Human, Squire"," This young woman is a struggling squire, dressed with poor quality but well cared for leathers. She is bronzed in skin and dark in hair, which she has cut short and practical. She accepts her lowly position, is dedicated to her training and behaves practically, bar a little autistic need for all statements to be exact and literal. (Male at birth.)"
Tarl,"Male, Human, Inept Mage"," An inept junior mage who is considerably overweight already. He grows a poor beard in an attempt to look more wise or senior but only achieves looking like a neckbeard. He suffers severe toilet-related bowel problems at little warning which frequently get in the way of his magic at the most inopportune times. Despite this, he doesn't wash himself or his own clothes."
Sathriel,"Male, Elf, Cook political upstart"," A tall, middle aged elf with early grey hair and a loud mouth, who thinks himself far smarter than his position. A passionate trade-unionist and active [what we would call] Marxist, urging the underclasses to raise up to claim their just rewards."
Varan Feddik,"Male, Dwarf, ""Honest"" Merchant"," Lots of brown, almost ginger, hair and an impressive beard frame the lovable face of this wannabe roguish merchant. He is a trusting man and genuinely believes he is an honest merchant but should perhaps trust his suppliers a little less. He only hires honest folk who are down on their luck and despite being arrested several times for selling stolen goods, cannot understand why it keeps happening."
Silvos Saltore,Male Human Detective," Tall dark and handsome You will never see him without his Glasses of dim light (sunglasses) Frequntly uses terrible catch frases, witch he always finshes by taking of or putting on his Glasses He works for the cityguard as a detective"
Karif,Male Kobold Naive Performer," A small kobold with big dreams. Karif wants to be a world-renowned singer more than anything else; unfortunately, Karif has a voice like a sword being dragged across flagstone. Unfortunately for everyone else, Karif is completely oblivious to this, and has traveled to the Big City to finally realize his hopes and ambitions. Karif is incredibly optimistic and naive, despite any evidence to the contrary, and is relentless in pursuing his dreams."
Lanforn The Great (The Useless),I have a lot of story behind this guy and all of his unintentional antics," Possibly the greatest wizard in all of existence, but also the universe's greatest irony. Wears the wizarding clothes of his adventuring years, a purple robe and pointy hat with stars and moons all over. Long pointy white beard, and ear hair to match, he is the classic 1E Merlin. Not much is certain about Lanforn, except that none of his spells will go correctly, and he never learns from his mistakes. Trained as a circus magician, he later became a university wizard."
Kevin Himmagen,Male Human Enchanter and Arcane collector," He owns a large shop. He is in his early twenties and has black hair, a thin black beard and an incredibly mono-tonal voice, despite his excitable nature. Overall very knowledgeable and an astute businessman. He seems to turn up everywhere."
Stumpwater Jack,Male Half-Orc Hermit," Stumpwater Jack was raised by his witch mother in a small shack deep in a dangerous swamp. He learned a small amount of magic from his mother but did so with great difficulty. One day his temper got the better of him and he ransacked their home and ran off into the wilds. Unaware if he had harmed his mother, he decided not to return. He now wanders the swamp a hermit. He speaks in short direct sentences with little to no fluff. Social graces are a foreign concept to him and on the occasion that he meets someone, he usually offends them. He has a habit of keeping is hands at his side when he speaks, looking almost statue like."
Halvar Strand,Male Human Adventurer (Retired)," Once a great hero among Northern Isles, Halvar battled great dragons and monsters in his earlier years. His final ""heroic fight"" was against a Leviathan that had been reportedly terrorising a small port town. As he stepped up to the edge of a sea cliff to challenge the Leviathan to battle, he was swept to sea by a massive wave. During the ""fight"" Halvar lost his magnificent sword, ""blixt"" and was so ashamed of this unfortunate turn of events that he fled south in hopes of never being seen again. To this day, he still has a grudge against the Leviathan, and refuses to stand near sea cliffs."
Oskar Ungart,Beardless Male Dwarf Inkeeper," Oskar is a clanless dwarf by choice, he is also beardless. You don't get to question his life choices, and better keep your damn trap shut. He is who he is, and is proud of it, dammit."
Albert Kelcus,"Male, Gnome, Alchemist"," Albert lives in a small shack outside of town. He is trying to create his very own artificial life however is always unsuccessful. On the bright side, he makes good healing potions (however they always smell of cabbage)."
John Kelley,"Male, Human, Amateur Diviner"," John is a very sweet man, but not a very smart man. He has the unfortunate tendency of summoning hostile ghosts and spirits instead of the spirits he intended to summon, this naturally leads to PC's having to save him from his blunder."
Edward Dee,"Male, Half-Elf, Warlock"," When no PC is there to save John from his blunders, Edward does. He is shorter and plumper than one might imagine a half-elf to be but he makes up for that as a rather gifted Warlock."
Joyce,"Female, Elf, Tavern Owner/Retiree"," Some Elves do not see near immortality as a gift. Joyce always wanted a simple simple life and at the first moment she got, she opened a small seaside tavern called the Bloated Seagull."
Graham Hennessy,"Human, Guardsman, Charismatic"," Graham loves his job, although not the part of the job where criminals hit him with things. He'd much rather solve a problem with his charming personality than revert to violence. He's no master swordsman, but he'll show you the sharp end when he needs to."
Ysma,"Female, Elf, Tea shop owner/necromancer"," Elves live for quite a long time, as we all know. Elves of course live longer after dabbling with the right kinds of necromancy. She'd never admit to prolonging her life by means of the darker magics. She'd much rather have a pleasant discussion over some tea. Don't go into her basement though, that's where she keeps the poor fools who asked too many questions."
Celine,"Male, Satyr, Thrower of Great Parties"," Celine is a harmless enough fellow, he and his band of roaming Satyrs kidnap weary travellers for a party that won't be forgotten (or perhaps entirely forgotten depending on how much wine is served)! In that time, no harm is done to the traveller and after the party, the traveller usually wakes up further in the forest in the direction they're heading."
"Errol ""The White Dragon""","Male, Dwarf, Ex-Soldier"," Errol was a soldier as a young man. He earned himself the nickname The White Dragon for his prowess on the battlefield as well as his shining white armour. In his old age, he tells stories to young folk and if you ask him how he got his nickname, he just takes in a deep drag from his pipe and blows the smoke out his nose while growling like a dragon."
Mother Hannah,"Female, Human, Wheelchair-Bound Wizard"," A sweet old woman and caretaker of a small sanctuary for those learning in need of wizarding knowledge. She will teach young people in exchange for a book from their travels, assuming it's not one she already has. If you come to her empty-handed, she is very easily persuaded with kind words. If you come to her with harsh words, you may not live to apologise."
WOO 10 DONE! THIS IS UNEDITED DON'T HATE ME.,"Male, Human (as far as he's concerned), farmer (obviously)"," Gerald is a decent enough man most days of the week, but sheep from his flock and livestock of neighbouring farms go missing on Monday nights. Wolves or perhaps bandits are the usual suspects. Gerald is blissfully unaware that he, late Monday evening, transforms into a werewolf. He hasn't harmed a person, nor has he been spotted...yet."
Grandmaster Erobern,Male Human Lord Justicar of the Most Noble Order of the Holy Visage," An aged man, once young a full of zeal to smite those of evil intent, the fullness of his years has replaced his strength with wisdom. Erobern prefers to wield his considerable influence with subtlety, a carefully chosen word here, a dissemination of information there. Erobern prefers problems to be solved with the least amount of bloodshed possible. Some factions of the Order see this as a weakness."
Justicar Adjutant Snellry,Male Halfling Archivist," If Erobern is the spider, then Snellry is the web. Snellry collects information on the activities of evil throughout the realm. Snellry proudly considers himself a shield for Erobern, employing... diverse means of gathering information. Erobern of course, is familiar with Snellry's activities but allows him a certain latitude for the good of the realm."
Galban the Swift,Male Half Elf Will of the Visage," Galban holds the highest position in the order below the Grandmaster and travels the land on a celestial steed, speaking Erobern's will to the chapters of the order, adjudicating disputes and disseminating information. He is renowned for being both fleet of foot and swift to take offence should someone insult the order. He secretly harbours an irrational fear of ship and open ocean waters."
Mistress Ariandre Erendril,Female Elf Master at Arms," Ariandre is responsible for the instruction in armed combat of all Order members. Some of the younger order members call her 'Mother Dee,' but never to her face. She hears more than they know however. The title causes her particular pain as Galban is secretly her son, born of an affair with a now disgraced former member of the order. She is unsure if Erobern knows this fact."
Chaucy Orlan,"Male Human, Former Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Holy Visage"," Chaucy the Betrayer, Chaucy Oathbreaker, Chaucy the Blind, Chaucy the Red, Chaucy the Black. Chaucy fell in love with Mistress Erendil while under her tutelage. On a journey together, in a time of weakness, wine and loneliness, they crossed the divide between student and lover. Chaucy is guilt ridden and travels the land searching out those who would do evil, perhaps looking for penance, perhaps looking for a glorious death for the cause of righteousness."
Dranmer Duluth,Dwarven Male Knight of the Order," Dranmer is a recently proven Knight of the Order, rapidly making a name for himself with the slaying of bandits, orcs and undead. He unquestioningly obeys the orders of his superiors. Dranmer was beaten by his father as a child, and is particularly harsh when dealing with men who would abuse children."
Aera Cloudshammer,Dwarven Female Master Armourer of the Order," Aera makes the heavy armours and weapons used by the Knights, infused with the holy power of the divine. She is obsessive about cleanliness and order in her workshop, and becomes agitated if anything is out of place. She has only two fingers and a thumb on her left hand from a raid on her home village in her youth that left all but her dead. Erobern (then a young knight) rescued her and took her into the order. Aera loves the Grandmaster dearly."
Denjack,Human Male Stablehand," Denjack is recently arrived at the Order, taken on to perform menial tasks and assist in the stables. Denjack hears whispers in his head at night and is unsure if they are divine or malevolent. The whispers are strongest on the night of the full moon."
Sunna The White,Female Human Cannibal Cleric," A sweet, innocent, middle aged woman. She masquerades as a priestess of the god of the village, while at the same time eating the people who were recently buried. She moved into kidnapping travellers and involuntary euthanasia a couple of weeks ago. She eats people because she learned an immortality rite from a forbidden book that involves cannibalism and blood sacrifices to her true god."
Thenmozhibe,Female tiefling moneylender," Relatively tall with a wiry build, and no noticeable hair. Carries a many-notched steel staff of exactly five feet that she uses for taking measurements. Spends a month at a time inspecting roads and bridges and recommending changes around a town that hires her before moving on. Understands several languages but primarily speaks Dwarven in conversations with herself and others. His nose makes a faint whistling noise when he talks. Spends his evenings cleaning tables at a friend's inn in exchange for a room. Average height, broad shoulders, and shaved head with a large greying mustache. Has substantial savings that he intends to put toward building a house in the woods nearby. Twice married to human men less than half her age and twice widowed from duels in her honor. Wears secondhand clothes and jewelry from whichever town she last visited, to be traded in or sold for replacements in her current town. Talented flutist who takes pride in recognizing and developing the musical talents of those around her. Long brown hair, green eyes, and a permanently seductive expression. Dull-witted but friendly, and loyal to his friends and employers (in that order). Unable to speak any language except rudimentary Dwarven, though he understands orders as long as they are in Dwarven. His face is a misshapen mess of scars and broken bones that he has accumulated over the years, and his unkempt red beard has had chunks torn out of it. He is independently wealthy and spends coin generously, though nobody knows where or how he has amassed such a fortune. Short brown hair, a hawkish nose, and a large pair of canine teeth jutting up from her lower jaw make up an unusual visage, if not a particularly ugly one. She does not boast many clients, but those that pay will pay very well for her services - and highly recommend ""that thing she does with her teeth."" Offers a money-back guarantee if clients leave unsatisfied, which no one has yet been able (or willing) to claim. Spends most of her free time passing by the homes of the nobility, admiring their gardens. Straight black horns follow his thin white hair back behind his head; rheumy brown eyes sit above a thin-lipped business smile. A team of apprentices run the day-to-day operations while he sits in the back of his shop, dreaming up and sketching fashion ideas. When a client of sufficient value enters, he becomes as authoritative and demanding as any tyrant, and will often simply forbid a troublesome client from speaking altogether; it is a testament to his prowess that business does not waver. He holidays with his paramour among the nobility once each year, whose identity he keeps secret largely for his own sake. Standing six feet even, Sash is heavily muscled and deceptively quick; her hair is tied back and she has silver tattoos over her arms and legs that stand out in stark contrast to her ebony skin. She's a bouncer for a tavern that sees very little business during the day, but much more when she's managing the tavern's fight pit after midnight. She regularly takes a week off to visit her family out of town, though once in a blue moon she'll take one of her many challengers up on their offer for a fight in the pit. Her tattoos are in Orcish - what she thinks says ""Swiftness,"" ""Vengeance,"" ""Fury,"" and ""Resolve"" actually says ""Fruit,"" ""Southeast,"" ""Brownly,"" and ""Dwwabmmh."" Soft white scales run from the crown of his head and flare out all the way down his spine, while the rest of him covered in smooth, leathery grey skin. At his full height, he is a scale under six feet tall, with the tendency to crouch or bow his head to better hear those smaller than him. While young for his kind, he is very sickly; on any given day he might be sweating or coughing heavily, and he usually sounds exhausted. On rare occasions (months apart), he feels genuinely, truly good for days at a time, during which he shuts himself in his tiny home and works non-stop as his cultured colleagues await the results with baited breath. Short and stocky frame, with asymmetrical, broken brown horns that have been filed smooth. She can be very abrasive, and speaks openly about her distaste for her clients, her hired thugs, and the business of moneylending. She balks at spending money herself, though she is quick to jump on a deal if she's certain she can turn it over in her favor quickly. She refuses to deal in silver pieces, in an often futile attempt to invoke her demonic heritage for leverage."
Lana of the Riverlands,Female Watergenasi Hermit/Druid," A weird old woman that lives in a small hole by the riverside. She takes care of the ecosytem of the riverland around where the river Vree flows into the Great Green Sea. She sees herself as the guardian of the river, having lived here for almost 40 years. She avoid human contact most of the time but some days she visits the town of Vreedam, where she tends to the sick and poor. Most of the normal citizens of Vreedam see her as a harmless nutter, but to the homeless, beggars and orphants she is seen as a kind of saint. Whenever she goes throught the streets there is allways a swarm or urchins surrounding her and she allways has some goodberries to spare. Her hair has turned the colour of sea foam and her sky blue skin has as many wrinkels as the sea during a storm, her back isn't what it used to be either so she is seldom seen without the driftwood staff she uses for walking. But her eyes are still the same as in her youth. Big eyes that catch the light and reflect it like a mountain lake on a windless day. Yet also deep and blue like the sea. Eyes that you could loose yourself in and drown. And many a man did back in the days. The old folk can sometimes tell of a time where every man was trying to court the mysterious lady of the shore. Yet none succeded. None but one."
"Kareem the Bright, Captain of the Ocean Dawn/Bard",Male Fire Genassi Captain of a trading ship," When he first arrived in Vreedam the news spread like wildfire, soon every young womans heart was burning with a passion. He was handsome, he was charming, he was exotic. In one word, he was hot. The Ocean Dawn hailed from Brangha, a big trading city in the far west. She was carring fruit, spices and silk of sorts people in Vreedam had never seen. The Ocean Dawn stayed in harbour for 3 weeks. Quite a long time. Why you ask? To celebrate the Dawns arrival the major decided to hold a massive party, it doesn't happen every day (or even year) that a ship from this far west found it's way to Vreedam after all. There was music and dance, food and alcohol, laughter and cheering. And at the center of it all was Kareem. Allways surounded by a flock of young woman, first dancing with this one, then with that one. Then he was gone. As if by magic. Which in a magic rich world like this seems actually quite likely ;) You see Kareem isn't actually quite the party type, while he loves to dance he doesn't like big crowds. He is honestly a bit of a loner. And so it came that on this fatefull night an again visible Kareem decided to take a stroll along the beach. And it was here, where the Vree joins the Great Green Sea that he met her. Deep Blue hair blowing in the ocean breeze, looking out towards the sea with eyes that reflected the moon and the stars. Their eyes met and Kareem could feel his heart skip a beat. The next day some folk reported seeing two figures dancing on the waves, only their silhouettes visible against the morning sun rising from the ocean. The Ocean Dawn left 3 weeks later, to travel to the Small Green Sea and sell the rest of it's wares and return a few weeks later to Vreedom to let of a single person and then travel back west to Brangha where it would have to find a new captain. This was the last anyone saw of the Oceans Dawn for 35 years."
Jasper de Wit,male human swashbuckler/rogue," Blond, longish hair, slightly tanned skin, blue eyes, of average height for a 19 year old. Jaspers mother died in childbed and his afther died 4 years later out at sea working as a fisherman. Jasper grew up on the streets of Vreedam, a town that doesn't do much for it's homeless and orphants. He is good friends with Lana of the Riverlands. During some especially hard times the goodberries she gives to the orphans were the only food he had for weeks. He considers this a lifelong depth he owes her. He left the town with 16 with little more then the shirt on his back. He returned 3 years later, wearing fine clothes and carrying a purse full of goldcoins. Some foul mouths would tell you that the ways he got this money weren't quite legal. They are right. Jasper dreams of marrying the mayors daughter Anika Hummel and opening an orphanage in Vreedam. And he is allready making progress towards these dreams. Well at least the first one."
Anika Hummel,female human daughter of the mayor," Long chestnut hair, green eyes, freckles in her face and on her arms. He allways has a smile on her lips and is of quite tall for a 20 year old woman. Many of the young men in town try to court her, not only because she is quite good looking but also because she is the daughter of the mayor. She politely refuses all of them. Unbeknown to everyone she and Jasper have been seeing each other for a few months now. Meeting in secret. She knows that her father would not aprove of her relationship woth Jasper, her mother might. People that know of the relationship: Jasper de Wit, Anika Hummel, Lana of the Riverlands, I will add more as I add characters"
Hugo Hummel,male human mayor of Vreedam," Ash blond short trimmed hair and beard, blue eyes, middle aged, relativly small for a man, beer belly. Needs reading glasses. Hugo has been the mayor of Vreedam for the last 25 years and has actually done a quite decent job. Since he became mayor the town has seen a stready grow in population and prosperity, trade has been good and the depth that the old mayor managed to create has been payed of in full. (The old mayor was fond of throwing parties for various ocasions using town money.) The Hummels have been a merchant family in Vreedam since its inception 300 years ago. They used to own the very first corner store. Where it stood before now stands the Hummel Trade hall, which hosts most of the trade going on in Vreedam. Hugo is very proud about Vreedam and the development it has seen during his time. Whenever talking about it he has taken to calling it the City of Vreedam thought nobody else has adopted this yet. He is the father of Anika Hummel, husband of Natalia Hummel and big brother of Henry Hummel."
Natalia Hummel,Female Half-Elf Wife/Mother," Long chestnut hair that she wears in a bun, green eyes, still very good looking for her age. She was born a De Haan and married Hugo 30 years ago when they both were barely adults. They were what some might call fools in love. Sadly over the years the fire of passion faded and their mariage is hardly what you could call passionate. The things that binds them together is the love for their daughter Anika. Natalia is a strong woman and while her husband is the mayor, there is no doupt that in the Hummel household she calls the shots."
Henry Hummel,Male Human Head of the trading hall," Ash blond short hair, blue eyes, quite tall. Allways a winnig smile on his lips. While his brother became the mayor of Vreedam, Henry took over the family buisness of managing the Hummel Trade Hall throught which most of the trade in Vreedam flows. You will usually find him either in the hall or at the harbour speaking to some merchant or the captain of a trading ship in their native language. Few people know that he actaully owes this gift for languages to a magic ring of languages that allows it's wearer to read any language and speak to people in any language they know. The ring has been a family heirloom for generations and its origins are said to be of not quite holy nature. (It was demons, some ancestor sold his soul for this ring) Henry is also the biological father of Anika. A fact only him and Natalia know."
Annabel the Poppet Master,Female Human Possessed girl," Annabel was a normal 10 year old girl before she discovered a tiny doll in the woods. The doll spoke to her, and when she answered, it possessed her. She now wanders the forests and swamps waiting to curse anyone foolish enough to venture into her territory."
Jute the Dragoon,Male Formerly-human Wandering warrior," Long ago, ""Jute"" was grievously wounded in a battle. Though it was too late to save his body, his allies transferred his consciousness into magic rope, which served as his body ever since. He wears heavy armor so he appears to be a normal human, but he is actually composed of tendrils of rope. He has wandered the world so long that he forgot his real name. He rides an ankylosaurus named Sige."
Dywin the Purifier,Female Elf Human slayer, Dywin is a pureblooded elf who was raised to despise all elves of impure blood and the humans that corrupted them. She travels the world silently weeding out the half-elf population and inflicting justice on any human who would dare breed with an elf.
Burgten the Skull Smasher,Male Half-orc Tribe leader," Burgten takes great pride in his orcish heritage despite being only half orc. He instills loyalty in his tribe by leading them to victory after victory in combat. However, he is also a shrewd diplomat, and has secured his tribe protection from the major empires that surround him."
Leiris,Female Aasimar Druid," Leiris wanders the forests without a care. She helps anyone who seeks her aid, but never actively seeks to find people in need. Her animal companion is an elk."
Person from Porlock,??? ??? I don't remember, The Person from Porlock visits in moments of epiphany to drain inspiration. Works especially well on Bards. It's unknown if the Person from Porlock is a single individual or a race of beings.
Haftir the Immortal,Male Dragon All-consuming destroyer," Millenia ago, Haftir was the destroyer of civilizations. Every thousand years he would emerge from slumber to destroy any civilization that had appeared since his last visit and hoard away all their gold in his cave. However, he now sleeps forever, helpless to move because his gold was formed into a chain around him by a clever human, which he values too much to break."
Raven,Male Drow Information broker," Raven buys and sells information. Everyone hates him because he's a dick, but his information is so valuable that everyone puts up with him."
Lexi Prottimer,Female Human Entrepreneur," A member of the wealthy Prottimer family, Lexi is just beginning her financial enterprises. Aiding her may result in gaining the family's trust and/or aid, which could be invaluable."
Laurelin etherborn,Female elf druid," Laurelin was abandoned as a child in the green forest when her family was captured by a band of orcs. She was adopted by the forest spirits and became one with the land. Raised by wild spirits, Laurelin is an untamable druid with a deep understanding of the natural world."
Hanuman das,Male human monk," Train as a monkey-priest in the far eastern lands, hanuman is incredible agile. He enjoys the simple life: Wandering around the world, eating whatever the people give him, and helping others to find their inner-selfs. He stands out from the medieval townsfolk as a tall and slender hindu man with colorful robes."
Forthrightly Goldwine,Female Halfling Thief," An experienced cutpurce, Forthrightly was named by parents who hoped she'd be polite, hardworking and to-the-point. Able to lift herself out of the poverty they raised her in with honest labor. They don't talk much anymore."
Gormundr Halfshanks,Male Goliath Hunter," Gormundr leads the Mountain Rangers, a group of outcasts who live in the shade of the mighty peaks. Though they tend to be shunned by civilized society they perform an important role, holding back the great beasts, aberrant monstrosities and occasional shambling undead that roam from their natural habitat to the borders of farmland. While they aren't free their services are invaluable to small villages who are paid no heed by the larger cities."
Rock,Male Goliath Moron," Rock isn't his full name, but it's the best translation of what the other members of his tribe call him. Though he attempts to be useful and has prodigious strength he is... untroubled by the complexities of life. If given any task of greater complexity than ""Take this heavy thing to here"" he'll find a way to make it go wrong, without even a malicious thought in his head."
Magnus Hammerhand,Male Dwarf Commander," Unprepared for the sheer brutality of war with the Goblin tribes of their new mountain home the expedition that sent Magnus to Fort Strongbow was slaughtered, with barely a hundred of a thousand-strong caravan making it to their destination. With an outpost set up however Magnus took charge of the remaining warriors and proved that Dwarves are nothing if not tenacious. With all thought of mercy stripped away by the years of bloodthirsty combat Magnus' mission is to keep his people alive and pacify the mountains for Dwarvenkind."
Ruallion Thanaton,Male Elf Wight," Ruallion was a hero of Elvenkind. A brave warrior who died in glorious battle with his barbed spear still clutched in hand, stained red with his own blood and that of his enemies. However when a storm of wild magic washed over his forgotten corpse he was reanimated as a shade of his former self, a being of pure malice with no direction or purpose. Now he stalks the earth, roaming from the fields of civilized lands to the caverns of the underdark to the gutters of ancient cities. With nothing better to do and an unquenchable lust for blood Ruallion sells his services to the highest bidder as a shock-trooper and assassin, not for the money but for the sake of killing and the desperate search for purpose. The Red Wight doesn't need to breathe, doesn't need to sleep, doesn't need to eat and is just as deadly dead as he was alive."
Julliana Orsendi,Female Human Broker," Working under the pseudonym ""The Lark"" Julliana inherited her family's side-business while her father and brothers were off riding horses and filling themselves with arrows in their spare time. The women of the Orsendi family are just as vital as the men to retaining their status, and they do this by maintaining a large network of spies and informants in every noble house from here to the next country over. The information that gets passed to them finds its way to the ears that need to hear it, for a price. Julliana is the eldest of four sisters and the current mistress of the nobility's secrets, though what she decides to do with them will depend on who's paying."
Nefyros the Dracomancer,Male Dragonborn Wizard," Nefyros is one of the foremost scholars on Dragon lore currently alive today, and according to rumor is the original author of the Dracnomicon sustained by black magics. This is of course nonsense, though he did have a hand in editing the later editions of that famous text. Nefyros has devoted his life to the study of dragons, driven by some purpose that leads him to delve deep into their secrets. Untouched by the sorcerous magics that grant power to a few with true draconic blood Nefyros instead entered into the study of arcane magic, and is a master of transmutation. Thus far however, all of his experiments with turning himself into a dragon have failed to produce permanent results, and have almost lost him his research funding a couple of times."
Strife Harkanon,Male Human Bandit Leader," Presumed to be a pseudonym, mainly because it's extremely cool or stupidly overblown depending on who you ask, Strife is a relative unknown among the lawless brigands of the world. What little is known from captured members of his band of thieves and pillagers indicates that he was a child soldier, following his father off to war when he was only a young boy. His fellows grew up under similar circumstances, pitiless and amoral men forged in war at a young age. The bandit leader is known to be a capable warrior and utterly without sympathy for the weak, despite multiple offers of amnesty he seems to have committed himself to an existence of lifelong strife."
"Lu'Nahan, the Dark Side of the Moon",Ineffable Alien Thing," A being from the far realm that has come close to the world, drawn by the burning light of the world's life like a moth to a flame. Lu'Nahan dwells as a shadow on the dark side of the moon, its mind reaching out to the world by night to touch the minds of mortals who would serve its ends. Its purpose is uncertain, but it feeds on the light and the heat and those who worship it desire to bring it down to the world, with the moon if necessary."
Vilendas Easterling,"A 5'11"" half elf male with sandy blond hair trimmed short and combed into an almost swooping way with and angular jaw and sharp features. No facial hair."," Pretty good looking and popular with the ladies as well as men, this is a local language teacher at the secondary school for the educationally gifted sons who can attend. This is the best school in the country. Here he teaches primarily mastery of common and proper writing etiquette and composition. He also enjoys theater and directs plays as well as providing his own screenplays."
Charlie the Somewhat Smart,Male Human ex-merchant Wizard," Some people have mid-life crises. Such is the case with Charlie, who prefers to be called Charlie the Smart. Some adventurers came into his shop a year ago and tried to sell him a spellbook they found. Considering he was running a grain and livestock feed store, he was hesitant. But he took the offer and has since left his shop with his son and decided to find adventure."
Ledus Pacus,Female Minitaur Retired Mercenary," She is tall at seven feet, with greying chestnut fur. She retains much of her muscle, but is going soft around the midsection. She can be gruff and callous, but she is a font of information about the local area and abroad. Drinks milk, which is objectively weird."
Reah van Nynaaten,Female Dwarf Mayor," Short and heavy-set. Black hair tied back into a thick braid. The mayor of a small town. She is full of new ideas like ""democracy"" and ""civil rights."""
Lobelia Mustard,Female Halfling Fighter (ex-paladin), Drug addict. Lobelia is about as wide across as she is tall. Red hair and sallow skin. Her armour is unpolished and she stinks. If she hasn't had her fix recently she's a grump.
Tasai Qamio,Female Human Bureaucrat," Tasai is a diplomat from the north. She is campaigning across the countryside, amassing supporters on a platform of religion and military training. She has not explicitly announced her opposition to the crown, but many suspect that she intends to become a usurper."
Uazmos Txigu,Female Eladrin Bard," Uazmos is talented, beautiful, compassionate, and confident. She is known far and wide for her powerful presence, strong will, and her generosity towards the less fortunate. Her songs often make overt jabs at the priorities of the court."
Ximmiant Teseoah,Female Dwarf Ceremonial Fighter," Ximmiant is a veteran of the Vela Key Arena. Her sport of choice is batter ball, and every season she is the favoured competitor. Her mother was an oracle, and many suspect her skill is owed to an inherited precognition."
Corvus Allabaster,Male Kenku Accidental Jewel Thief," Having been born with all white feathers and sky blue eyes (a bad omen in his flock) Corvus was exiled at age 12. Being a bad omen others of his flock avoided him so they too wouldn't be outcasts, this of course caused him to develop no social skills, and he's an accidental thief partly because of this and partly for just being a Kenku, for they have no teeth so they rely on their gizzard which means they need to swallow small rocks and pebbles to help grind food, and Corvus, not knowing that gems have value, has ingested many ""shiny stones"" that has resulted in many hardships and enemies"
Eyef,Female Aasimar Cleric," A spunky woman with pale skin, emerald eyes and metallic blue hair. She was left on the doorstep of a temple to Shelyn as a baby. She greatly enjoys the fine arts, and she is gifted in the dulcimer and singing. She has a free spirit and tries to see the best in everyone."
Brad Greyfinch,Male Human Pickpocket," A teen who wanted to see the adventures of war, Brad left his home to enlist in the army as a messenger boy. However, when army discipline and war proved to be too much for Brad, he deserted and lost himself in a big city. Having lost all of his youthful optimism, Brad now works as a pickpocket for a local crime syndicate. He tells himself that there's no way to change his life now, and that he'll probably be a criminal until he dies."
Mattin Bathew,Male Human General," A middle-aged noble who has fought in the army for decades. Calm and collected, he has a remarkable talent for directing armies on the field and in directing them when not in combat as well. He is a widower, although he has two grown sons who also serve in the army. He cannot hold his liquor well at all, and so he refrains from drink when on the campaign trail."
Costa Caro,Male Human Assassin," Costa is a lean man with a perpetual five o’clock shadow. He has dark eyes and longish dark hair with streaks of grey at the temples. He’s a handsome enough guy, though he looks a little dangerous. He’s obviously a good fighter, to anyone who knows about fighting. He has olive skin and stands about 5’ 7”. He’s not heavily muscled but he’s definitely not scrawny. He comes across as a confident but suspicious man who lives with one foot in the streets and one foot in the respectable world. Costa has an easy laugh and a gregarious manner, but his emotions don’t seem to really reach his eyes. He’s obviously seen some crazy shit and it’s deadened him a little inside."
Crazy Stan,"Male, Human, King/General/Ambassador/Adventurer"," Old and worn, with hairs of grey he wears old clothing, and has an unkempt beard, on his right wrist he wears a Platinum Bracer, and on his back is an empty scabbard, fit for a Greatsword. His Stories, while almost never true, are the stuff of legend, and are quite amazing to hear, even though he constantly refers to the times these stories took place in as, 'Back in My day' He frequents the inn, and offers to tell one of his stories if the adventurer would buy him a drink. It's not known if he has any sort of home, or other belongings, as he hasn't left the inn in years."
Caleb Stonehead,Male Human Peasant," Caleb is a kind-hearted simpleton. He's easily fooled, but always has the best of intentions and frequently goes out of his way to help others. He's strong, with massive hands, and would likely make a dangerous opponent if one ever managed to truly anger him."
Ashlan Tinderfoot,Male Halfling Innkeep," Once a typically jolly halfling, Ashlan fell to despair and drink after his wife died in childbirth. His inn is falling into disrepair, and he all but ignores the child."
Estheria Willowbreeze,Female Elven Anthropologist & Archeologist," Estheria spends her long life traveling, embedding herself within primitive cultures to study their ways. She has published several lengthy books. Her time among simpler folk have affected her worldview tremendously, and she no longer has much interest in returning to the haughtiness and arrogance of traditional elven culture."
"Borhild ""Werewolf"" Dagmarson",M – Human – Wrestler," A large man dressed in fearsome furs, Borhild ""the Werewolf"" is the skull-crushing underground brawler who even the villains of the ring will unite against. Secretly, he wishes to exit the business and inherit the small shop where his parents sell hand-knitted tchotchkes."
Lord Snellby,M – Half-elf – Snake oil dealer," Traversing the rough roads in his wagon full of elixirs and faux noble getup, Ersatz Snellers (""Lord Snellby"") peddles his wares, half of them no more potent than water."
Kaéshek,F – Shadow Elf – Warrior/Leader," When the slave revolts in Bashraqqa began, the people looked to a hero. Kaéshek is who they found. Long free herself, she had hidden connections to the shadowy organizations which bankrolled the revolution. Now she must lead the free city, trying not to become a puppet of those same secret societies which lifted her to power."
"Corélia, Lady of Estorin / Lareth Brymarr",??? – Elf – Aristocrat/Con artist," Townsfolk have long noticed the striking similarity between Lady Corélia, and local con man Lareth. Fear of displeasing either, however, prevents them from investigating which is their true identity. However, they both seem to have an affinity for archaic literature."
"""Empress Margitte""",F – Dwarf – Drunkard," The 'Empress', as she calls herself, has become a local attraction in the fishing village of Arbell, dispensing her own sort of truth and wisdom from atop her crate in the town market as she solicits coppers from those who take pity or are humored by the elderly woman, beard filled with trinkets of the years."
Tyrell Gwyferon,M – Human – Mercenary," Sick of living in the shadow of his older sister and being the son of a baron's head servant, Tyrell set off on his own years ago, eventually finding himself pike-and-sword in hand in the ranks of the Chequered Band, a company of ill repute."
Father Duma,M – Human – Priest," Long ago, he was Dumatoru, a centaur paladin with a firm belief in the inferiority of all other races to his own. That changed when he met Charal. Now, with the help of a magic talisman, he lives a quiet life (without his equine half) with the love of his life as keeper of a small town temple."
Lzara,F – Wood Elf – Survivalist," Princess Lzaretta Anabella Wembelia of Cypressfell was the subject of a large bidding war between suitors. Her solution? Strike out on her own into the thick forests of her homeland, stating the first of her admirers to find and retrieve her will win her hand. Six years later, Lzara has found a peaceful life among the trees with only her axe and falcon familiar as companions, with no end in sight to the philanderers' hunt."
"Erwolg, the Terrifying (known as Erwin in this plane)",M – Kobold – Lighthouse keeper, A stout man of deep red skin and twisted features. His heavy cloak and solitude in his lighthouse hide the fact he is in fact a demon cursed to watch the seas for a millennium. An expert in chess.
Boaz Oxenrider,Male Human Merchant," Tall, beginner's pot belly, short brown hair, & no facial hair. First generation merchant from a long line of farmers & looking to start a legacy for himself. Protective of close family & sends money back to support parents & younger siblings."
Kanaka Ironshirt,Female Dwarf Fighter," Shaved head, waist length black beard braided into a single rope, & speaks in heavily accented common. First daughter of a matriarchal clan out to prove her worth to follow in her mother's bootsteps. Quietly believes she can do anything better than whomever is doing it & never backs down from a challenge. Insists that Moradin is not the All-Father, but instead it's Moradina, the All-Mother."
Ben Alda,Male Human Doctor," Skinny, dark hair, smart, & doesn't know when to shut up. Conscripted at 20 to serve in a war & taken from his family for 11 years. He was no good as a soldier so he was sent to train under the healers. Always has a story/complaint about the war, a line for the women, & a drink in hand if he can help it."
Milo Littlefoot,Male Halfling Beggar," Slight even for a halfling, the adventuring life was never in the cards for Milo. Born with a lame leg & not able to get a job, he turned to begging. No one notices a halfling beggar & it turns out that's good for the information business."
Caplan the Crooner,Male Dwarf Bard," Taller than average for a dwarf with light brown hair & beard. Deep, raspy voice that sings of loss, love, & the places those two have met. His height made him an oddball amoung his dwarven home & he hit the road to see the world."
Fref Glenaw,Male Human Tailor," Fref is a good businessman who is eager to expand his own business, but will help with many business opportunities he is offered. He abides by the laws of society but if he can bypass them he has it within him to become a sadistic torturer who enjoys screaming. He is in his seventies, small in every dimension, with a bird-like face and swept-back white hair."
Gorb,Male Half-Orc Politician," Gorb is small as half-orcs go, but a talented politician. He is wary of threats to his position and those in his care. He was never a great warrior, but when he fights, he uses strategy and tactics over strength."
Harmin Dangehr,Male Dwarf Captain of the guard," Harmin is a fierce fighter and will send himself to the death to protect those in his care. He uses an enormous greataxe. However, he prefers to defend than to attack, and is in favour of walling people in to take care of them better. He is extremely untrusting, but extremely trustworthy."
Amiko,Female Human Innkeeper," Amiko is middle-aged and of medium build. She does not suffer fools, and is reasonably intelligent, but serves a damn good pint. If there's any trouble in her inn, it ends up on the street sooner rather than later, but she will fight for the right cause."
Amilee Nightfall,Female Half-orc Guard," Amilee is tall, even for a half-elf, with pitch-black hair. She fights for what she thinks is right, but is foolhardy and headstrong, and will fight for a lost cause to the death."
Bzor,Male bugbear guard," Bzor wants to eat the humans, but the humans give him money to hit other humans with clubs instead. Money can buy pigs, which are tasty. Bzor hit what bzor is told to hit. Bzor is good in the woods, and hates other goblinoids he cannot convince to join his own worldview."
Emblem,Asexual Treant Druid," Emblem sees himself as protector of the forest. It despises war and the instruments of war, preferring meditation and mediation. It will teach the PCs meditation if they will allow it to smash their weapons and armour, which will give them extra points of concentration."
Semaphora Underwood,Female Halfling Baker's Apprentice," Semaphora wants so badly to be a sexual deviant, but she has the worst luck with it. She's got a thing for beards, but that just nets her gay dwarves and bearded ladies. She will go to absurd lengths and always fail stupidly."
Herb Amakiir,Male half-elf painter," The son of the butcher, Herb loves to paint, and is very good at it. He gained the skill and passion from his father, but is often told to get back to work on something that will put food on the table, which, when you work as a butcher, is very literal. He paints wherever and whenever he can, out of his father's gaze."
Baldrick Fancyson,Male Human Innkeeper," Baldrick is a human who looks like a short, wide dwarf, down to the beard. He uses stilts when behind the bar. His big bar idea was to cater to the merchant wagons that pass through the city, and he has enormous, well-supplied stables to this effect. He thinks a lot of his bar and keeps it posh, making sure that there are places for mud and rain to be disposed of before entering the common room. Fantastic cook."
Georgina,Female Human Tailor," A heavyset woman of average height, Georgina has an optimistic disposition but tends to be precise and direct when speaking considering the use of extraneous words below her intellectually. She is known for two things, always having the latest clothing fashions and stretching constantly."
Brian Johnston,Male Half-Elf Lawyer," While Brian may have some unusual features such as a gap between his front teeth, slightly worn clothing and a hacking cough, he is a charming and cultured man with a tall thin frame. He wears a set of small spectacles and keeps his hair well greased. His choice of phrases clearly hide second meanings and innuendos and should always been listened to carefully."
Belinda Stoneworth,Female Dwarf City Guard," Working for the guard was not Belinda's first choice of career but her lack of physical fitness prevented her from joining the standing army. She still gets to carry a weapon and has a modicum of power so it will suffice. Loud and surly, she is often found having drunken arguments and fights at the tavern after hours. Despite this, she is a model guard."
Roderick Nestfellow,Male Gnome Barber," Roderick has been a barber for the last 40 years and loves his work with a fanatical zeal. His customers are very regular and are happy to come in for a good shave and a better conversation. Through the years, he has acquired quite a few great tales and rumors and is always more than happy to retell them all with great exaggerations and embellishment."
Roson,Female Dragonborn Performer, Everyone has their preferences and it seems a lot of people love to see a dragonborn dance. Roson dances in a tavern but never unclothed. She loves the attention of locals who find her kind so intriguing. She keeps an observant ear of those shes met and their stories which she then collects in her countless journals.
Eilidh Grace Dickinson,Female Halfling Child, Eilidh has grand dreams of adventure and dragon slaying much to the dismay of his parents. He runs the paths of his village with a stick for a sword slaying the beasts in his mind and chasing off his fellow children. He assaults any adventurer he sees with questions of their exploits before running off to include these new stories into his own.
Isabelle Webb,Female Tiefling Blacksmith," Despite the trappings of her lineage, Isabelle leads a good and quiet life as the blacksmith in a small town. Through her time there, the locals have come to like her even if they don't fully trust her. She has a muscular build and calloused hands from her years of hard work. Her muscles twitch regularly when she isn't working but she no longer notices these things."
Borgard Tortuga,Male Human Sailor," A salty sailor in his mid 40's usually suffering from unemployment and an abundance of stories. Personality: Loves cats, drinking, fighting, and whoring. You can usually find him in a tavern by the docks, he is 5' 9"" of medium build with dark hair and eyes. When pressed he will tell you the location of a secret treasure."
Lumpy Untata,Female Halfling Office Manager," A young idealist who works on a chicken farm, Lumpy dreams of living in a big city. She has a love for reading, sewing, and finding someone to chat with at length. Lumpy is very attractive at 3' 8"" with a nice build, green eyes, and sandy colored hair. She is in touch with all of the town gossip and is a great source of information once you get a few drinks in her."
Kane Firebrand,Male Tiefling Thief," Standing at 5' 6"" with reddish skin and black eyes, Kane Firebrand is not someone to be messed with. Kane can usually be found in the seedier parts of town, committing acts of robbery, theft, and general burglary. Kane has a short temper but is quick to offer his services in exchange for cold hard gold. Beware, if you pry too deeply into his business, you might find yourself on the end of his dagger."
Welby Two-Beard,Male Halfling Barkeep, An idealistic and very gullible simpleton. Has a long beard separated into two braids whicn he might actually believe are two separate beards. Can very easily be convinced to do almost anything.
Orlisk,Male Dwarf Hermit," Salty, irritable, and unlucky, this dwarf was outcast from his clan over a moral dillema at a fairly young age. He has since turned to drink and is unlike to trust anyone. He has forsaken many dwarf traditions, has trimmed his beard, lives alone, and forgotten his family name."
Reardon Sengar,Male Elf Squire," Raised in nobility, Reardon has an overdeveloped ego and falls back on his family name in almost any circumstance. He has a strong sense of morality but an even stronger desire to have things go his way. He rolls his eyes often and is generally irritable and pompous."
The Storm,Male Half-elf Sorcerer," ""The Storm"" is unlikely to reveal his true name. He's young, but not quite young enough to justify wearing all black, being very angsty, and referring to himself in the third-person by a superhero-esque monicker. He makes every attempt to remain mysterious but often breaks the illusion by grumbling about his parents. He is a surprisingly skilled magic-user."
Brando,Male Human Gang Leader, Brando towers over most men and is built like a bear. In any conversation he is looking for an excuse to exert his physical dominance over whoever is talking at him. He is local-famous for his aggression and his wrestling skills. He runs a branch of whatever might be the D&D equivalent of the Hell's Angels.
Vin Vaced,Female Human Beggar," 5' 4"", Brown Eyes(Blind), Brown Hair, Dirty but not unpleasant smelling. Vin tends to hang out around the local inn, shining shoes and collecting tossed coins. Vin was blinded as a child after being hit in the head with a horse's hoof. She is actually the offspring of a local lord, but won't reveal this fact unless pressed."
Sharpey,Male Dwarf Smith Apprentice," Sharpey is a 5ft tall, 50 year old dwarf with brown hair and blue eyes who has no clue about anything that isn't metal or fire. Sharpey is madly in love with the local bartender but has never approached them. He would be very inclined to do a favor for anyone who could point his crush in his direction. The Smith he is learning from is hiding a mimic in his home."
Orel Kao,Male Half-Elf Bartender," Orel Kao is recognizable for his piercings. He draws beautifully and has painted all of the walls in the tavern with murals. He tends to pace and is hot tempered in his dealings with others. If he has a flaw, it is that he has a phobia over being touched."
Veylin Brightwind,Male Human Duelist," A famed duelist from a small island nation, Veylin has taken to traveling the world. With a faint accent, one of his family's twin ancestral swords, and a spring in his step, he jaunts from city to city. Many fans of his are eager to throw parties in his name, an honor he doesn't seem to mind. However, his family back home, specifically his brother, the lord of the island, are none too happy that Veylin took one of the ancestral swords that are rightfully his, and left the line of succession to go off on what is (in their eyes) quite a silly occupation."
"Pallen ""Silvertongue""",Male Halfling Gang Leader," Those who see Pallen for the first time assume him to be a perfectly nice man. Why, he would never hurt a fly. However, those unlucky tavern owners and innkeepers who live in the same neighborhood as him know him as a ruthless man who will do anything for money and power, and half the inns and taverns owe him protection money. But most just see his friendly exterior, a happy face, an easy smile and the famous sharp tongue that gives him his nickname and pass him on by."
Stalwart,??? Warforged Butler," Stalwart is the longtime manservant and butler of a high-ranking lord of a noble family. The one thing that separates him from most of his brethren is his remarkably sharp tongue and cynical and sarcastic sense of humor. No one knows quite how a member of this normally humorless race developed such a wit, but it is clear that his sense of humor is quite developed, often surpassing the wit of his employer. Many fellow nobles call on the employer just to hear what Stalwart mutters under his breath, and several family friends think of Stalwart in as high if not higher regards as they do the actual family."
Adaliah,Female Spirit Caretaker," She is an emissary of the deities, most often associated with those of the realms of life and death as she assists the souls of those traveling from the material world. She may often be seen by the bedside of those who die alone. Her other favorite spots are park benches watching children play or chatting with strangers. Her appearance and mannerisms vary with each account, but all agree on her grandmotherly qualities, doting or disapproving depending on alignment."
"George, the Gregarious",Male Human Cleric," A towering, portly, middle-aged man with a red face, a beard to rival most dwarves, and sausage fingers. George prefers simple robes to armor as he is often seen with a barrel of ale on his back, a stein in his hand (that mysteriously never empties), and his two handed mace that functions more as a glorified walking stick. If the rumors are to be believed, several orc tribes, an arch-demon, a lich, 2 chromatic dragons, and a vampire coven all have on separate occasions halted their plans and entertained guests simply because George's name was mentioned."
Peabody the Strongman,Male Half-Orc Personal Trainer," ""Even for adventurer like you staying in shape hard work. When you make up mind to get strong, Peabody will be there. Like ravenous displacer beast, Peabody will pounce to make you run faster. Peabody will surprise you in sleep for 50 night-pushups. Me work hard so you work hard!"""
Krillee,Male Kenku Orphan," Krillee loves tarts and is known by all the village bakers to be a thief. His all black coloring made hiding in dark corners and alleys easy. Twice already he has tried to join up with a gang of thieves, but both times he failed to pass their test."
Helmaer,Human. Male. Drunken asshole Racist Mercenary.," A massive human, who finds his problems at the bottom of a glass, and solves them either with his fists or his warhammer. Hates elves, orcs, gnomes, and other ""sub-humans"" with a burning passion. A decent, unscrupulous underling-for-hire, but too ambitious to stay that way. He dreams of leading an army back to his fractured, human-run homeland from where he was exiled."
Fetch,Goblin. Male. Abomination.," Once a proud tribe leader, he has had his strength, his memories, and even his name stripped from him. A wizard wiped out his tribe, but needed a servant - he took the broken body of Fetch, and made him into a half-magic, half-goblin abomination. Is replenished and strengthened by being hit with any type of spell - that doesn't make it hurt any less, however. Has escaped his former master, and now lurks in dark forests, preying upon hapless travelers - in a very literal way."
Harold Von Talsken,Male Wizard (High Level) Dwarf," This wizard speaks with a very thick german accent to differentiate himself from his more scottish speaking poor people. He constantly complains about his greatest invention, made to sound as an actual physical magical artifact, being stolen by Llib Setag a human wizard, when pressed on this his invention it turns it out it was nothing but an idea, but it was stolen nonetheless because he can no longer remember what it was. Llib Setag had broken into his mind mansion and stole the idea before Talsken could construct the device. He wants it back."
Llib Setag,Male Human Wizard," A Wizard of fame throughout the land for is useful inventions bringing magic goods to many more people, currently just aristocracy he has plans of using the Von Talsken Device to allow common people the ability to use magic, he just needs to construct it, unfortunately due to stealing the wizard's idea, he has no idea how to go about it. It turns out that most of his inventions and discoveries are stolen and repackaged from others."
Macduff O'Grady,Male Dwarf Fighter," This rowdy mercenary is known for his band of troops known only as Strongmen Incorporated. A collection of the toughest meanest sons o' bitches west of the Greyscale Mountains. Macduff speaks in general strong guy talk, with Ho Ho's! Hyup Hyup! Growls and Grunts. While he doesn't seem all that intelligent his battlefield tactics and his companies drilling techniques make them a terror on the battlefield."
Ishmere Elehan,Elf Female Bard," A bard by trade, a pickpocket by night, an occasional turtledove. She can be found in the wealthier parts of town, usually sweet talking the guards to be allowed to ""busk"" in those districts. She has the dirt on all the noble houses, knows all the affairs (a party in many of them) and has a sizable tithe to the Thieves Guild."
Xume Dalagom,Female Drow Cleric," At a glance, you can tell she's grown up in spiritual community, by her short white mohawk haircut and modest-looking black robe. At young age, she was chosen by Milil, and exiled from Drow society because of that. She prefers physical solution to her problems over magical ones, since she's a drow. She usually hangs out with bards, minstrels and artists, at local theaters and libraries."
Grimey Folkhard,Male Ghostwise Halfling Monk," Back when Grimey was young, his father went travelling into world, telling him stories about a huge treasure he was going to find to make his family back in Shoun live a happy life. Now, with his trusty staff and cousin Jens by his side, he started to travel to the great city of Baldur's Gate, where the destiny awaits him. Along the way he met Aiwin, who became his mentor on the way to becoming a true monk."
Jens Folkhard,Male Lightfoot Halfling Warlock," Ashamed of not being able to keep up with traditions in their community of Ghostwise halflings, he contacted the Great Cthulhu and begged him for his powers. The Great Cthulhu gave him powers, in return for the rest of his life being his pawn in his great return. From time to time, he is asked to do seemingly ridiculous things that supposedly help in the summoning. Little does he know, the things he does today will have effects in the future - some in the closer future, some in further one."
Aiwin Galanodel,Male Wood Elf Mentor," Four dots in shape of a letter Y on his forehead, the short black hair and the charismatic voice. Many people recognize him as the mentor of monks, who left monastery long time ago to spread his word through the world. He cares about his students, and always seeks for more. His secret hope is that one day, he will start his own monastery with his new philosophic views of the world."
Mansel North,Male Human Sailor," When boarding the Red Sunset ship, you couldn't miss this tall pale human with athletic build and no hair on his head. He's got a tattoo of an anchor breaking through heart on his left arm just below the sleeve ever since his wife left him. Secretly, he believes that North Star is alive and that it's calling him. He is too quiet - he doesn't say anything unless asked to."
Arno Bearkiller Kalukolake,Male Goliath Adventurer," Muscular goliath that stomps with each step, yet can move swiftly. He proved his adulthood by slaying Skrämbeorn, the great bear that terrorized villagers. Ever since then he was mistakingly recognized by the nearby villagers of Oxeye as a hero. He once got seduced by a dryad and how has half-dryad half-goliath son G'rowt."
Riva,Female Drow Paladin," She grew up to become a paladin loyal to her kind. Long white hair and dark skin may be classic features of a drow, but what could throw you off is lack of fascination for spiders. She's cold, shy and catious, but also inquisitive about the faith of others, but can tolerate paladins and clerics of other faiths. She talks in sleep about her drow friends she hasn't seen in years and is fascinated by birds."
Maggi Swampbottom,Female (Human...?) Vender," A old, absurdly hairy woman, with grey hair covering her entire body, giving her a sense of mystery. Sells many magical items in her small indestructible wood hut, which can teleport to various locations (such as when PCs enter the town/city). Her wares are usually cursed in some way, and she is completely oblivious to such curses. Some are not cursed, but are usually sold at absurd prices."

Mystery Name,Mystery Description

What strange things have these brave warriors seen?," In the anticipation on the eve of battle, one's mind might start playing tricks. After the confusion and gore of a pitched battle, who is to say that the strange tales told by the men and women who fought are not true? In a fantasy setting, some knights, sellswords, barbarian warriors, and common soldiers may forget most of the experience of a battle. But, sometimes, something will stick in the mind of one of these warriors, something unusual or out-of-place on the battlefield... The mystery doesn't necessarily have to be solvable at all, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs. I'll post a few examples."
The Swan Among the Reeds," While scouting the low hillocks and puddles of the Ravensmarsh on the eve of battle, I came upon a swan who told me to leave this place before dawn. Had I heeded the advice, I might still have two hands and be able to do honest work."
The Child-Saint," On the killing fields in the battle of Gundar's Pass, I fould myself trapped beneath my dying horse. My leg was badly broken and our lines were breaking. I was saying a prayer for my wife and sons when a child dressed in gold lifted my horse and told me, ""Go. Live."""
The Wriggling Plague," When the wild men came down on Fort Whitewood, we were ill-prepared to withstand a long siege. I led a sortie out to burn their supplies before their force had complete encircled us. I came upon two scouts on foot who I quickly dispatched with my sword. Where their intestines ought to have spilled from their bellies came wriggling black feelers. The things came wriggling toward me. I am not proud of it, but I rode hard south. Something was wrong with those savages, and I did not to wait around in the fort for it to get to us."
The Dead Laugh," I had sold my sword to the Prince of Jalak, and I was with a boarding party on one of the warships attempting to break the Easterlings' blockade. A fireball blasted the deck on which I stood, and sent me hurtling into the sea. As I drifted, floating on a piece of the broken ship, the dead floated past me. They were laughing. All of them. Easterlings, Sandfolk, other foreign mercenaries. I'll never forget their smiles, and the sound of their mocking laughter."
The Pink Sky," You do know that during the Battle of Gwyllam's Crossing, the midday sky went from overcast grey to pink. My comrades saw it too. After the enemy was defeated, the sky went back to grey. It was the damnedest thing."
The Whippish Beard," We were on patrol, and we ended up skirmishing with a Bearmitt hunting party. A dwarf in our party fell and lost his axe while tangling with one of their hairier warriors. I swear to the gods I saw his beard, long and braided, uncoil itself, grab the axe from where it lay—several yards away!—like a fracking tentacle, and smash that Bearmitt savage in the skull."
Death has a Familiar Face," The commander decided to launch the attack at dawn. Before the sun's rays even crested the top of Hollow Hill, we rode towards the enemy encampment. We did not find a single living soul there. Fires were still burning. Swords and shields were still on their racks. Even the horses had disappeared. It seemed as if they had all vanished like a breath on the wind. The Count had hired a cabal of wizards to partake in the siege of Whitewalls and the men were wary of them. We don't like them lot who work for coin you see. They thought they'd break down the gate with their chanting and their rituals, and this whole campaign would have be over in a week if they had. But as they stood in their chalk circle mumbling, one of the incanters dropped limp. Maybe it was a lucky arrow from the battlements, none of us saw it. But as soon as the man in robes hit the ground a shape wrapped in shadows rose from the circle. They tried to run, but that thing was faster. It gutted them all before vanishing. You should have seen the Count's face, not that we were cheering either I'll tell you that. I rushed towards the soldier, but as I struck him down, he wasn't there anymore. Instead there was my wife, my mace embedded in her skull. She was holding little Callum in her arms. I swear it, it's true, and just as true I ran away like the Seven Devils were chasing me."
She who walked among us," It was just after the clash of the armies, we fought at the front at about 5-1, but we fought like the lions we wore on our banners. When I went down after the horse knocked me over I saw the lady, in full battle gear with a long sword in hand, just walking through the fighting masses, dodging with a small wicked grin of satisfaction. Nobody ever saw her they swore to me, but I know what I saw as clear as you lot standing in front of me."
The one left behind," By all accounts I should have been dead (revealing two large scars on his chest) that day. I had fallen, I saw my brothers and the other fallen on the other side, waiting for the Valkyries to take us away. I saw them come and take my brothers and enemies alike, but they left me standing, next day I woke up on the battlefield between all the bodies and gore with cursing scavengers looting my body."
The raven and the fox," Everyone knows bad omens when they see them, a murder of crows following you or a red sunset at the eve of a battle. But a raven and black fox watch us that day when our supply caravan was ambushed on the road. It followed us all day, and old Huck warned us that we should take the longer road. And than they vanished from sight, not five minutes later the enemy was upon us, but I am the only one to tell the tale now."
The Wardancers," I have seen many a'unit fall under our feet, crushed by our prowess and experience. But never will I forget the day we stood against the Elves of Shinmaer with their slim curved swords, we laughed and taunted their troups and their leather laced armor. But they just ran at us, without a sound, and they danced between us on unheard music like leafs on the winds of winter, and they shredded and tore through our ranks leaving nothing in their wake but falling soldiers and red-stained grass. We won that day, but for no gold in the world would I do that again."
Parting words," I ran a man through with such force that my hilt met his chest and we came face to face. He stared at me with a grin and whispered ""Excellent thrust, Calleb"" before he fell dead in the stream. How did he know my name?"
Wrong Door," In the heat of the chaos outside the siege of Castle Grendon, I saw a burst of light and wind not 20 paces away from me. A glowing circle appeared in the middle of the battlefield and a wizard, a halfling, an armored dwarf, and a half orc stepped through it. The wizard glanced around quickly before yelling ""Whoa! Whoops! Hold on.."" and pushing the other three back through the sparkling rift. The magical anomaly disappeared. I was so stunned I almost got my head taken off."
Stephen the Streaker," Did I ever tell you about Stephen Bagge? When that string bean, twig of a man joined our platoon I thought he'd never live past his first skirmish. But, at the start of the Gordinia Woods battle, he sheds all his armor til he's just standin' there nude with his sword in hand. He charged into the fray and came out soaked in blood but untouched and through his breeches back on. The other lads made fun of him, called him names, said the only reason he survived all those battles was the enemy hesitating at the sight of him long enough to get cut down. But I saw him fight at Kaylor plains ... that boy moved with unnatural speed and skill..."
THE MARSH MEN, From the marshes they rose. All of the fallen. They shambled towards our regiment in haphazard organizations. So shocked was my regiment that we were torn apart. To this day I'll never forget the look of my warrior's faces as I fled.
IN THE HILLS IT HUNTED," The general had told me and my regiment to scout the Iron Hills. The morning was crisp and early, but the heat of the sun removed any chance of respite in the cold morning. We had been told to be on a lookout for a missing patrol, so naturally we were on edge. It was then, when the mists swirled before a low rise we saw it. An enormous beast, humanoid in posture, but a great goat head replaced what human features would be atop its broad shoulders. It bellowed at our patrol, and as it charged towards us, hefting a bloodied axe, I recognized the head of Rommel, my mothers cousin swinging on a belt tied to the beasts bulk, alongside members of the missing patrol. We never stood a chance, I survived only because I crawled into a ditch and hid, as my friends were torn apart."
NO RETURN," Yes dearie. My son, Jorgan, was drafted into the army some two moons ago. It was during the harvest festival that the visions began. During my sleep I watched my son do battle against the Northmen. Last night, he rode into the mists. He didn't return."
bold," To get bold you put two '*' stars on either side. Like so:
 ====> * * bold stuff * *"
The Night Battle," It was the last fight of the Greenseer Rebellion. Finally got those damn rebels to stand still and give a fair fight. We got our lines dressed at noon, and we advanced. There wasn't a cloud in the sky. Then, in the middle of the fight, I thought I saw smoke. I wondered if their camp was afire, but it was off to the flanks, not behind their lines. The cloud grew and grew, until it blotted out the sun, and we were in the dark. Then the cloud came down, further and further. And then it was amongst us - and it was bats. Thousands and thousands and thousands. All flying around us, the whole battle. Then, just as quick, they flew away, leaving the sky blue again. Strangest thing."
The Lights," I was on guard duty one night. We were on manoeuvres, but there wasn't an enemy anywhere near. So I was a bit surprised to see torches out there in the dark. Called the commander, and he raised the alert, so we formed up and got ready to receive a charge. The torches came closer and closer until they broke cover - and there was nothing there. No torches, no people, just the lights. The lights passed through our lines. Right through us. Corporal Gripes says he heard their footsteps, and I swear I felt the heat from one of the torches, but not a man saw a thing but the lights."
The Battle of the Mists," Ah, honoured master! Will you not sit with me and have a pipe? Yes, yes, just here. Achmed! Lazy boy! Bring my honoured guest a drink! You ask about The Battle of the Mists? Ah, honoured master, there is a tale to chill the blood, even on a day like today where the heat bears down. The dogs of the Berber Emirate needed to be taught to respect their true masters, so the armies of the Calphate were mustered. I was a humble Captain, commanding a mere one hundred lancers. Ah, I know my form is no longer of the dashing warrior I once was. But once, I was lithe and strong, and pleasing to the eyes of many a young beauty. The curs sought to hide from our wrath near the Bone Hills, but we stole a march on them and had them before us. Beautiful country for a horseman, honoured master. Flat and wide and just begging for a glorious charge. And who were we to deny? Yes, Achmed, the dates! I always have dates for the noon meal! And some for my guest! But as we trotted forwards, a strange mist arose. Nothing have I seen like it in all my days. The mists came, and enveloped us all. We could still hear their barbarous war-cries, and so we continued. But when the mists lifted, the plains were empty. From all around us, the cries of the Berbers, but no sign of them could be seen. They shouted that they could not see us, that we were cowards who had fled them, but they were the ones who had vanished. And then I saw a terrible thing. Many have called me a liar for my tale, but may the Prophet (peace be upon him) strike me down should I give tongue to a falsehood. A hundred great chariots sped across the plains, faster than the swiftest horse. But no horses pulled these great metal chariots. No wheels I saw, just dust. And a great tube, like the trunk of an elephant held outstretched before them. And the tubes spat fire! With a crash like that of thunder! I felt the great roar pass through my very body, and my horse reared. I crashed to the earth, and when I looked up, I was amongst the Berber rabble one more. They had been mown down like wheat and were routing before us, so none took notice of my fall. I looked about, and saw nothing of the monstrous chariots. None of my men - brave warriors all - ever spoke of that day. We were honoured for our part in a great victory, although truth be told not one of us wet our blades. I see doubt in your eyes, honoured master, and yet I swear by all that is, and by the truth of the Book that all befell as I have told you."
The Battle of Dragons," You've never seen a dragon. Well, six I've seen. Six more that I ever wish I'd seen, if truth be told. I was a soldier once. Marched with the King against his brother when he tried for the throne. It was a cold day, and the Prince's army had found us and gave battle. Messy fight it was, with all of us mixed up with each other, tough hand-to-hand work. And then the shadow came over us. I looked up - and saw wings spread as wide as a ships sails. Massive red bugger it was. Flew over us, and landed to the side of the battle. And then another, shining like a copper penny, flew down. And another, green like the treetops. Then one gold, one silver, one black as night. They perched all around the battle, like they was watching us, or guarding us or herding. I dunno. They just sat there. Then they roared, and it was like they were trying to tear the air apart with their voices. The din shook the air in my lungs. Were they shouting at us? Or at each other? I don't know. Then, they stopped. It was so silent. And then they few away. We looked at each other - King's men, Prince's men - and we went back to our lines. nobody wanted to fight any more that day."
The War Nobody Won," The war wasn't just bloody, it was horror made flesh. Five armies? Six? Who could tell, with the alliances breaking and binding and breaking again. A sea of death, where the waves could barely hear themselves speak. When the survivors woke, they woke to desolation. Generals and kings slain, homes burned, whole cities annihilated. There was no victor... and if there was, they never stepped forward to take command. All that remained was charred chaos and bodies. Nobody knows who finally put a stop to the fighting."
La Victoire," ""I survived every cavalry charge and archer barrage that they sent up to us on top of Carver Hill. And every time, I swear I saw that same soldier. I know, because of his eyes. Blue, like bits of glowing lightning. Every time, I killed him, but he kept coming back. Sometimes... sometimes I think he still might."""
Oathbreaker," Fifteen years ago, he ran when he swore to fight, and his king paid the price. He refuses to defend himself, despite how far he fell to save himself. Unless... that wasn't the reason?"
The Plains of Glass," The prophet stood on the stony outcrop overlooking the battle, and held out one interdictory hand. I still remember the sound of screeching and shattering as our weapons turned to glass in our hands."
For Nitka," Throughout all the variations of sound in the universe, there is a melody that, if played upon a certain instrument, tuned to a certain off-key, played at a certain pace, will kill everybody who listened to it from start to finish. The papers the song was written too are titled, ""For Nitka,"" but whoever Nitka is or who the author of the composition was is of great mystery now. If you plug your ears while listening to the song, or should you begin listening to it too late or begin listening too early, then your life will be spared. The song has only been performed once, and that was at a piano recital in the mansion of the family who claimed that an ancestor of their wrote it. One who'd been listening but left to use the latrine returned just in time to hear the end of the song and witness as everybody, including the player, suddenly fell over dead. ""It wasn't even that bad of a song,"" the survivor claimed."
The Pillars," There are only three forests in the world where you will find a clearing of trees, where atop stand seven white marble pillars arranged in a circle. The pillars have existed on that hilltop longer than anyone can remember and there are no records of its construction and no nation can confidently make claim. As to what the pillars were erected for is a mystery. There are no bones in the dirt and there are no bloodstains on the stone. There are no articles to be found anywhere in the area. There are no other structures within miles of the pillars, and there are no deliberate paths leading to them. Yet people still find the pillars to sleep there. People who sleep in the circle of the pillars always have lucid dreams, which some will try to interpret as prophetic. Ceremonies to invoke for accurate dreams have changed throughout the centuries, but the dreams are always vague and weird. Sometimes, however, once in a generation, there will be a person who sleeps in the center of the circle of pillars and will awake recounting to have wandered through a great library, reading books about lost nations and civilizations, then awaking with a perfect memory of the experience."
The Coward in the Cave," I was in my seventeenth it eighteenth year, I remember, when I was on the front lines for the first time. My mind was racing with the thoughts of my father and mother, and just before we marched, I broke formation. I ran and ran, until I came across a nearby cave. I ducked in there and hid for what seemed a half day. When I came out, though, the battlefield was spotless. The camps, I could see, had only just begun to be set up, as though I had gone back three days. I ran as fast as I could from there, back to my parents' homestead."
War of the Woods," There used to be a keep wedged in a valley, near the the great river. One either side of the keep were great forests. One day, the sovereign ordered for the villagers to evacuate, fearing a great force would soon come to eradicate his people. The next month, the wildlife in the forest seemed to storm the the valley, and many who did not leave were caught in the mayhem. The survivors left as fast and fled as far as possible. Their stories say that the forest denizens were more interested in goring one another, and that the animals were painted in blue and red, like warring armies."
Thunderstruck," We were pinned. Trapped on the cliff, an army to the south, and the storming ocean to the north. With no way out, our commander had decided that we make out last stand there. We charged, ready to meet our gods. I saw the whites of the enemy's eyes, felt his hot breath in the cold rain. As I lunged forward with my pike, lightning struck in the center of the battlefield. The flash was so bright, all I could see for the next minute was white light and vague, spinning shapes. As I came to, every man in the opposing army had fallen dead, yet no man of ours had been touched. Something saved us that day; it stole our glory from us."
The Battlefield Saint," It was going terribly. We had been inspired by our mighty and virtuous cause; every man was willing to die it. But everything that could go wrong did. Our standard bearer was struck down within minutes of first contact. The enemy had large mobile ballistas, and their vast swaths of archers rained arrows like a deadly hail. I myself remember the pain of an axe in my side, followed by a huge barista bolt piercing not only my chest, but also the chest of a fellow comrade behind me. Before I died, I only remember seeing a man in white standing atop the distant hill above the chaos. Then darkness. The next thing, I feel a warmth inside of me. I felt at peace. And I woke up, face down in the grass, black and red blood painted across the green canvas of the meadow. I looked at my injuries to find them missing, and searched the horizon back toward the hill. The figure in white was shining with brilliance, and I could feel my breath escape my lungs in awe. Then, with a flash of blue, a ring of energy burst across the landscape, and the figure vanished in a puff of smoke."
Behind the Dune," The sand i was standing on was damp and soaked with blood, suprisingly i saw no dead bodies. I prepared to cross the dune front of, but i wish i wouldnt have crossed it, because what i saw standing on top of that dune was strange and disturbing."
The humming oak tree," We were sitting around the camp fire preparing to rest for the night. When i suddenly saw something strange in the dark. It was a dim light moving rapidly in the dark. I tried to follow it but it vanished after several yards. When i tried find the location the light vanished i found an oak tree. Strangle there was coming a humming noise from inside the tree, i swung my handaxe at the tree and then a bright flash of light appeared."
The Raising of the Fallen," The battle went well for us. We thought that victory was at hand. Then their necromancers started raising the fallen to fight anew. It's hard enough to fight a soldier who feels nor pain nor fear, but it became harder still when they started raising the fallen from among our own ranks."
The Battle of Ninegrave," The battle went well for us. We could see victory at hand, until their necromancers approached the front. The fallen began to rise. Dead-eyed and resolute they advanced. It's hard enough to fight against soldiers who feel neither pain nor fear, and harder still when the corpse you strike down was once a friend."
The Shimmering Vale," I know not why it was called the Shimmering Vale. When we crossed through it the air tasted of ash and the wind kicked up dust devils at our feet. The horses died first. Then the men began to sicken. They withered, fluids would not take hold in them, yet they did not die. Pale and parched we had to leave them behind. As we slept they marched closer, moaning for water. As we fled they called out, pleading for mercy. As we weakened those who could not keep up were abandoned. I do not imagine the ends they met were dignified. They refused to lie beneath the ground. When the remnants of the company crested the mountains at the other end of the valley we did not stop. We did not talk of where we would go or what had happened. As one, we deserted. Some were captured and hung, but most returned home and have yet to leave. I know that I shan't."
The Red Border," On the hills I stand, looking down upon the long line of ground stained red. The other nation stands across from us, staring down the same valley. It is now I remember his words.. ""I saw my friends die, I saw my comrades fall, I saw the enemy defeated, and yet we were told to run. Everyday after I came back, looking for my friends, looking to make a grave. All I could find were their weapons and the ground, stained, soaking pure red. Fools. They can't see the omen, and won't leave the border be..."""
The Honorary Swordsmen who won't let the dead die," They all know her, in the middle of war she walks the battlefield without fear. Despite wanting for death, she is bound by her honor. The same honor that caused her to pick up her blade. When she locks swords with someone who can hold their own, their fight, their sounds cause those around them to quiet. As they stand in awe, the two warriors duel - an honorable duel. She tells them, ""Duel me with fairness, if I lose I will grant you unquestionable power."" ""And if you win?"" ""Then pledge to me your service, in life and death."" And so they duel. They say she has not lost, they know she still holds power they cannot dare approach. They all know her, when the battle is lost she walks forward on the battlefield without fear. As she stares down the armies, a comrade notices a weariness on her face. She draws her sword, and so springs forth from the ground the fallen that have lost to her. Each great warrior, all whom have pledged their service, in life, or death."
The Will-o-Wisp's Call," The call of the wisp has always about on the battlefield, calling to the strays as a guide. That night though, before we could even fight, they took half the army with them without a sound."
The Charm Plague," The whole of the army, each soldier, beginning at the front line and spreading out like fire in a field of dry grass, began to turn on their kinsmen. Brothers in arms, so many long years at each others sides, thick as thieves, now savagely eviscerating each other. A very clever wizard had toiled away in his workshop for many months devising this charm. It was an amendment to something known in arcane circles as Dominate Monster, commonly used to take command of a monsters mind and give it direction against it's will. The wizard had constructed a method by which the spell could cast itself. When a mind is charmed by this spell, the creature immediately turns to all in it's vicinity and casts the spell on them before turning ruthlessly aggressive and killing all in his sight. By this method the spell spreads virally throughout the army. The wizard, clever as he was, didn't not anticipate that the telepathic link between himself and the affected minds would be two-way. It can hardly be imagined the mental anguish and terror to which he succumbed as he felt one thousand minds worth of rage and regret."
The Circle of Feasting," The party happens upon a fairy ring in the forest. Since there are no actual Fey around, it seems to be simply a curiosity. Should anyone attempt to eat or drink within the circle, however, they will find that their food and drink has become cuisine fit for the most decadent of banquets. Upon leaving the circle, however, the food leaves a bitter, ashen taste in their mouths."
The Hills of Jars," Just under the rolling, grassy hills of Sucia Isle, a series of vast, labyrinthine warrens and warehouses waits. The stonework walls, ceilings, and floors appear to be ancient and caked with dust. Filling the tens and hundreds of rooms within the hills are large, earthenware jars, lined up by the thousands, their clay lids sealed with wax. The entrances and exits to these underground storehouses are warded with powerful glyphs, which have long since faded and gone dark with the ages."
Silence is Golden," This object is peculiar, taking the shape of a rolled ring of some strange, silvery material. At first glance, there is no immediate way to unroll it, but with adequate investigation, the end can be found, and the substance unrolled from the rest. The silver strips can be torn away with little effort, and will adhere to most dry surfaces, though they have no other effect."
The Tree of Runes," Deep beneath the earth, far removed from the most remote dwarven strongholds of the Shadowspire Mountains, there is a tree. Green and flourishing despite the lack of sun, the tree's roots reach deep and wide, breaking the cavern floor. Each of the tree's leaves bears a symbol that greatly resembles a rune in the Dwarven alphabet."
New Tricks," While hunting in the deep forest, a Ranger's dire wolf companion has unearthed a fossilized femur bone of prodigious size that oozes dark red liquid when touched."
Treasure's Quandary," A collector's prize relic has been publicly proved a forgery, but that hasn't stopped a zealous cleric from demanding it be 'returned' to the temple from which it was 'stolen'."
Ninety Lives," The neighbor's patch-furred, scarred old tom enjoys bringing the ravaged bodies of mice, rabbits and the occasional mimic spawnling to the steps of the outhouse, where the likelihood of meeting a bare foot in the middle of the night is at it's greatest. Lately, however, his prizes have included documents in foreign languages, gaudy jewelry, and the signet ring of a long-dead duke."
Sideways Time," A Wizard of some renown claims to have (re)discovered a new school of magic, but is unwilling to disclose any more until someone can prove that he isn't dead."
Serpent's Feather," The snakes that nest in the barren cliffs that skirt the Northern edge of the great desert are renowned for the deadly potency of their venom, and have been milked for generations in semi-religious ceremonies by Kobold mystics, who then sell vials of the stuff to the highest bidder on the shadow market. Lately, however, various cells in the loose network of assassin's guilds have reported that the last shipment of venom isn't nearly as effective as it once was, and a few incredibly thorough practitioners of the murderous arts have been overheard suggesting that it might actually have restorative powers."
Love the Bomb," In the quiet hamlet of Llywenshire, the well in the central square has served as the hub for the community for as long as anyone can remember. But after a sore-pocked and disease-ridden stranger clambered from its depths, shouting at anyone who would listen that 'SHE HAS AWOKEN' and 'THE END IS NIGH!', the villagers have begun to express concern."
The Bronze Candlestick," There is an old bronze candlestick on the mantle in the Rose Room at the Freewind Mage's Academy. Without fail, every morning, the caretaker finds the burnt stub of a candle in the bronze candlestick, even when there have been no guests in the Rose Room, and it has been locked all night. The caretaker has attempted to dispose of the bronze candlestick, but somehow it finds its way back to the room."
The Hopping Raven," Upon the gravestone of the beloved witch Lady Pinewall who succumbed to the blood plague, a raven hops up and down. When anyone approaches, the bird squawks ""SPEARS!"" and flies off, only to return once the coast is clear."
The Golden Cherry," At the center of the Royal Gardens is an old cherry tree that produces wonderful, sweet red cherries. In the history of the tree, it has produced a golden cherry three times. The first time, the prince who picked and ate the cherry died in battle the following morning. The second time, the kitchen maid who picked and ate the cherry died of a bad belly. The third time, the stable boy who picked the cherry and fed it to the pigs fell to his death from a hay loft that very night."
The Pig in the Chimney," At Garvil the Greenbeard's house, you'll hear an occasional squealing of a pig. The sound seems to be coming from his old stone chimney, but Garvil eats no meat and has never owned a pig. Sunny weather, stormy weather, crackling fire, or cold hearth, the squealing sound comes and goes as it pleases."
The Sun God's Feasthall," Way out in the desert in the ruins of the ancient city of Haz Alaf, there is a large stone table with stone benches still in its place in the feasthall of the Sun God. At noon on the day of the summer solstice every year, the table in the feasthall is filled with a traditional feast—pears and dates, figs and lentils, roast fox, buzzard's soup, braised drake, camel's milk cheese, toasted crickets, fried scorpions, honeyed wine, and mild tea. Ever since the discovery of the miracle, hundreds of pilgrims make the dangerous journey to Haz Alaf every late spring to witness the miracle."
The Black Castle," A black castle stands on the outskirts of a small town with strange customs regarding the dead, those that die are revered (think cattle in india). Word is the castle started out as nothing more than a pebble but has grown almost organically and they are willing to buy both the living and the dead for unknown reasons."
Circle of unhappiness," A round clearing in the middle of a vast forest. Nothing lay within, no grass, no trees, nothing but a single flower. Those entering will be faced with extreme dread and unhappiness to the point where they feel life no longer holds meaning for them. Even animals instinctively stay away."
Jar of Many Faces," A clay pot sits on the shelf, the visage inscribed on the jar stares back at you with an angry grimace. When next you glance in the pot's direction, you notice it's no longer frowning at you, but grinning."
Ring of Many Moods," Embedded in this small golden band is a single gem. When unworn, the gem is a pearly white. When worn, the gem shifts to one of many colours, ranging from the palest blue to jet black."
The Unfound Door," A door stands upright in the middle of a field, only visible from head-on. There is no frame or anything else to suggest it should be able to stand upright. When looked at from any other angle, it simply isn't there and may be passed through. The knob is locked and will not open for anyone."
Boiling Bog," A large pool of water within a marsh is bubbling and boiling and steaming for no discernible reason. Strangely, the water is cool to the touch."
Well Of Black Water," This strange well sits atop a hill. The water within is clear and inviting, but once a bucket is dipped into the well, the water within is turned black as tar and greasy, utterly undrinkable."
Icebrick Tower," In the middle of the scorching wastelands stands a tower of shimmering clear ice carved into the form of bricks. No matter how hot it is out, the ice will never melt, even though it always seems to be shimmering with melt water."
A Clear Circlet," In the Archbishop's parlor, on a mantle of dark wood, stands a circlet of beaten rose-gold. Across it stretches a translucent film similar to soapy water. Several of his guests have sworn they saw glimpses of strange lands, otherworldly places and in one case their own bedchamber inside it, but the Archbishop has never seen anything."
What do we find out there?," Last week, we made some resurrection and chosen one plot hooks, so it seems fitting that for this batch of mysteries we visit the supernatural and the strange. The plot hooks themselves suggest a way in which the story could move forward. In contrast, a mystery should lead the story astray. There need not be clear direction as to where a mystery may be heading. The mystery doesn't necessarily have to be solvable at all, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs. I'll post a few examples."
Ghost in the Brewery," The monks swear there is a helpful ghost lurking in the brewery. They attempted to drive it out twice before, only to have dozens of barrels of ale drained as they aged."
The Dancing Stars," For centuries astronomers have watched the Red Wanderer and the Morning Maiden as they cross the sky. This year, their paths would cross for the first time in record. For the last six months, they have ceased to follow their expected paths and have been turning circles around each other."
The Whispering Cave," Up in Simon's Pass through the mountains, there is a cave that is said to whisper the names of travelers as they pass. No one who has gone deeper into the cave than the entryway has ever returned."
The Old Moon Ship," Every full moon, a ship with red sails is spotted off the coast of Tarrycliff. No one in the village knows whose ship it is."
The Reaching Meadow," Deep in the Haunted Forest there is a small clearing along the road covered in what at first appears to be tall grass. On your approach, you'll see that what you took for grass is in fact a patch of hundreds of long, thin tentacles, gently swaying together as if caught in a breeze."
A Singular Duet," There is a singer named Bertram who often performs in the Customs Plaza by day and at the Cat and Goat in the evenings who sings the loveliest duets, taking on both the high-pitch and the low-pitch parts, making both voices harmonize from his golden throat at once. When asked how he manages both the low and the high parts, Bertram insists with a smile that he doesn't sing the low parts, his infernal master does. If you ask to speak to his infernal master, Bertram laughs and lightly says, ""What master?"""
The Fey Baker," The best bakery in the city by far is The Faery's Child, an idyllic little affair on an out-of-the-way back alley. They've got a little something for everyone, it seems. The proprietor, a lean, middle-aged elven man, is perfectly warm and welcoming, and only too happy to hand out samples to new customers. There's just one problem: nobody has ever seen anyone deliver supplies to make the baked goods he sells."
The Day of Jubilee," For one day every fifty years, every piece of currency and every gemstone in the country begins to rapidly transmute itself. Diamonds become turquoise become rubies become quartz; gold coins become coppers, which turn into platinum pieces. Trade becomes either impossible or completely possible; the more conservative merchants will close their doors to avoid being taken in, while the risk-takers will speculate and gather as many of the rapidly changing coins and jewels as possible. At the stroke of midnight, however, the transformations stop. Many a beggar has been made a rich man by the contents of his alms cup... and vice-versa."
The Invisible Boatmobile," Smack in the middle of a bustling town square is a place where nobody seems to walk--because there's a ship there. At least, it feels like a ship; while one can feel the planks and grip the anchor chain, to all observing eyes, the thing is invisible. The fact that it stands straight up while on land is a somewhat lesser miracle."
Sister Goldenhair," Tales tell that the king's daughter has the most beautiful golden hair. Tales are right; her hair is actually made of spun gold. Needless to say, she is kept under lock and key in the castle, and every ounce of shed or cut hair is whisked away to the treasury before you can say ""exploitation."" One evening, a member of the party receives a letter by raven, pleading for rescue. There is no signature, but inside the folded paper are three strands of the finest gold."
A Tailor's Secret," A renowned purveyor of bespoke ettersilk clothing owns a four-way mirror that reflects only the most flattering angles and poses. Lately however, some customers report seeing long-lost relatives lurking behind their reflections, aggressively wielding long knives."
Lights in the Belfry," The tower of an abandoned church has regular nocturnal visitors that make no secret of their comings and goings, but the local village is hesitant at best to acknowledge it."
Fifteen Souls of Silver," Soon after receiving shipment of soul silver jewelry, the scale in Pyfford's Fyne Goods gained a new, unlabeled dial that only seems to change when used by certain members of the community, most of whom seem just as baffled by the addition as Dame Pyfford herself."
The Gloam in the Loam, A farmer digging for peat in the moors near his farm finds a buried door that opens into the parlor of a shady vampire-staffed gambling house a continent away.
Unwinking," After smoke from a forest fire turns the sun and moon blood red, local children start to mark ashy third eyes on their foreheads and will only speak in whispers."
"Mine, all mine!"," On the anniversary of a devastating cave-in, the runecog ore carts that had been lost within the mine trundle up from the deep, overladen with blood-stained ore."
Innkeeper's Daughter," Hrothman Togg is a pious man if there ever was one, and he keeps a clean establishment that caters to Clerics, Paladins, and other men (and occasionally women) of the cloth. Imagine his surprise when his daughter, a beautiful young woman, reveals that she's pregnant, and she doesn't know who the father is. Even more concerning to the community, however, is that up to a few days ago, Hrothman Togg didn't have a daughter."
The Help," A wealthy baroness has accused her staff of stealing the silver, and the local guard has been called in to handle the matter. What starts as suspicion quickly becomes confusion when it becomes apparent that the entire staff - supposedly nearly three hundred people - is actually one man in a vast array of costumes."
A Plague of their Own," And now for the puns! When the local women's Turnipball team grows ill right before a big game, their coach (and manager) is at wit's end. After a truly inspired pep talk, he gets them onto the field... but within minutes both teams are doubled over in pain. Now most of the league is sick, and the men's teams are refusing to play."
One Cue Over the Cuckoo's Nest," A small time hustler comes into possession of a staff that greatly increases his prowess in just about everything, especially billiards. Unfortunately for him, the staff is sentient, lawful good, and loudly repeats private conversations at the least convenient times."
Chum Like it Hot," (Part of) a missing nobleman turns up at fishmonger's quay after a particularly large tuna disgorges his signet ring, still worn on a severed finger. The bereaved family requests it back, and after a short period of mourning, the nobleman's son is named as the head of the house. Spectators at the event can't help but notice that the son now sports six fingers on his right hand, one of which is sickly white, pale, and wears the family signet."
Sleepless in Sea Cattle," A poleman on a garbage barge is swept into the river during a flash flood, and is saved by an aggregation of manatees. Now, several weeks later, he feels a strange urge to bathe in the brackish water of the bay, eat aquatic plant life, and headbutt boats. Even worse, his normally athletic physique is quickly becoming rotund, and his skin has become a rather unattractive gray."
Oh Danny," The moaning woman by the fountain that everyone walks past has a drawing of a young boy's face. It's her boy, Danny, and he's missing. Everyone has given up hope on finding him since he disappeared, but not her. This boy is everything to her, and now her husband, daughter, and best friend all won't speak to her anymore. Why?"
The Hunter of the Wood," The Baron of these lands set a Hunter to the task of ridding hid hunting wood of a terrible thing that has killed those unfortunate enough to happen across it. Some are found with terrible teeth marks, others with wide, horrible gashes. Many are never seen again. And the Hunter has been gone for three weeks."
The Lies We Tell Ourselves," The civil war between the Knights of this land and their forefathers, a paladinic order of tyrannical good, was only a Generation ago. But why can't anyone remember it clearly, or speak about it in detail? Do they fear plainly saying it, or have they really forgotten such a thing? How could they have naturally forgetten?"
The Lost Battle," The PCs come across a recent battlefield. Long enough ago that most of the bodies are gone, but arms and armour still litter the ground. However, none of the locals know about any battle, there are no stories about it, and the coats of arms and banners are unknown in the area."
The Boatman," Once a year a strange hooded figure poles a boat onto a certain dock. There is always one person who goes over to board it. Witnesses might say they looked afraid, relieved, or befuddled. The boat leaves, and that person is never seen again."
The Ghost Dragon," An apparition of a huge dragon appears whenever there is a lunar eclipse. It acts out the same scene each time - a titanic battle against an unseen foe. Finally it comes to rest at an abandoned plot of land where there are some ruins, and nothing grows."
The Vagabond Merchant," There are stories of a merchant you meet on the road, with a covered wagon decorated in painted vines and scenes of frolicking pixies. The merchant offers you a sale of a wondrous item, then, whether you buy or no, will ride on, vanishing when you look away for a moment, although you can still hear the hooves of the horse. Bad luck comes to those who see the merchant; if they buy, the item will doom them, if they don't, they find themselves in a situation where only that item would have saved them. Some say there is something you can say to the merchant that will make them leave you in peace."
The Lost Prince," The Crown Prince has vanished from his rooms at the palace. Nobody saw him leave, and no divination has found a trace, either of him or foul play. The only thing left was an exotic rose not from this continent and a note saying ""We must talk"" in elegant handwriting."
The Best Pies," The baker in town makes the best pies. The best. Everyone loves his pies. When people ask for his recipe, he just taps his nose and winks. Why are his pies so good?"
This Isn't Mine," One of the PCs wakes up one morning with a stone in their shoe. The stone turns out to be a flawless diamond, with the hint of something glinting in its depths. From time to time, people will come up to the PCs claiming the diamond is stolen, but when they see it they will go pale, give it back, and it isn't the diamond they were looking for."
Blood Skies," The skies turn blood red one night, as if blood were flowing over the dome of the sky. Everyone is talking about it for months later, even monsters who would otherwise simply attack the party."
The Bunyip," The local children have a communal imaginary friend, it seems. The ""Bunyip"" lives in a local ox-bow lake, in a small piece of abandoned ground near the village. The Bunyip occasionally takes the children to his underwater house, they say, and gives them presents. The presents appear to be sea-shells, which is odd, given the sea is many miles away."
The Maw," There is a local cave - not particularly mysterious until now. People used to shelter in it from the rain, or camp there when travelling to the next town. However, yesterday it suddenly changed into a carved likeness of an unknown monster with a huge, gaping maw. The locals would quite like the PCs to investigate."
The Tower In The Thicket," There is a forest of impenetrable Blood-Thorns. On dark moonless nights, what appears to be lights in a tower can be seen, about a mile into the thicket, on a hill."
Death Coins," Last night, all the portraits of the current king on all the coins of the realm changed to a hideous shrieking skull. Even the dies in the mint changed."
Strange Harvest," The day before Harvest Day, one field in the village appears to harvest itself overnight. It's always a different field, and seems random. No matter how careful a guard is placed, one field is always harvested without anyone seeing how or who."
Draconic Surprise," Every dragon or draconic creature seems surprised to see one of the PCs. No matter what they were doing, as soon as they see that PC they will start, and look at them with astonishment. ""It can't be..."""
The Blinking Signal," At noon everyday for one week of the year, a bright light can be seen blinking at the top of a cliff miles away. It looks like a reflection, but nobody knows what's causing it."
The Sleep of Youth," At the same time every afternoon, every child in this small village becomes incredibly lethargic for ten minutes or so. It is possible to keep them awake, but they all try to sleep the duration. The town has grown used to the effect and treats it as part of daily life."
Old Snarefoot," Deep in the woods, a creature is rumored to subsist entirely off of unwary travelers that it catches with its worn rope hands. According to the locals, there was an overzealous hangman many years ago, but no one knew what became of him when he was accused of treason."
Autumn Down," In the fall, trees in the King's Forest lose their leaves. Instead of standing bare, however, they grow fluffy grey down, then luxurious feathers as the winter progresses. It has been this way for centuries."
Snake Oil," Rekbar Otis is one of the land's greatest merchants. He has sold sand to camels, ice to vikings, and now, he's trying to con the good people of Randrenvale out of their gold with a miracle tincture. This time, it seems like it could be the real deal..."
Bard's Pass," None who come through the Bard's Pass, the only route between two mountain villages, emerge unchanged. Every living being that comes through the pass leaves with a newfound appreciation for music and a freshly tuned lute."
The Spirals That Follow," Out of the blue, dark red spirals appear wherever the players are. They seem to be organic in nature, twitching, breathing, sometimes even screaming. Their sudden appearance only seems to be noticed by the players, though. The pillars seem to have a weird effect on townsfolk and other figures around though. Nobody seems to be willing to acknowledge their existence, even when interacting without. ""Okay, so you're seeing the pillars, right?"" ""Yes."" ""And you're still saying they don't exist?"" ""... Yes"""
The Cave," Next to a small town there is a cave that leads deep, deep into the hills. What lays at it's very depths is unknown, however, as seemingly every twist and turn people make them end up outside again, leaving through the very entrance they came in through."
The Element of Surprise," There is a cathedral where a mythical creature resides. Some say it's a living anvil, with teeth and a tongue that devour every adventure that nears, others claim it's a demon possessing the shadow of however enters, to kill it's owners. In all reality, it's a Suprise Elemental, a monster that without form, without reason. Only appearing when nobody is expecting it, always in the form that's least expected."
The Siren Song of the Crypt, Rumors of hauntingly beautiful music carrying through the night have been cropping up around the town crypt. All of the townspeople who claim to have heard it seem happy to discuss their lovely new nighttime lullaby.
The Fighters," Recently brawls at the local tavern have increased in their frequency and ferocity. People once known to be jovial, mellow, or sad drunks now turn on their friends with abandon at night. Curiously, people known to have a temple while drinking have now simmered down, and all involved seem unaffected during their daily lives, aside from nursing their fresh injuries."
The Foresters' Plenty," The town's loggers refuse to travel more than a league into the forest, but the lumber they return with is far too dense to be young growth, and it burns with an unusual ferocity. They've been following the same logging trails for as long as anyone can remember, and refuse to show them to outsiders."
The Weirding Well," There is a well in the ruins of a town in a nearby glade. Legends and folktales abound about the strange sights and sounds around the well, and the countless brave souls who went to investigate only to return empty handed."
Call for Justice," Every night following the burial of a poor soul who died under questionable circumstances, a shrill but source-less cry for justice rings through the graveyard until the wee hours of the morning."
The case of the Baker," Every morn' before the sun is risen. Fresh, warm bread appears in the village. This impoverished village has no baker, nor a proper oven. Too far from the city to maintain its warmth, the masterwork bread that appears... Only where none are looking."
Schroedinger's Kid," Street urchins are a common sight in large cities. But this one strikes you as odd, you could have sworn you saw his corpse they day before, once again a week before that, and a month before that. And yet he still plays in the street."
The Restarting Village," A common village by looks. Every time one visits a sense of deja vu is felt. When an outsider approaches, all continues as normal. When all outsiders leave, all goes back to the beginning."
The shifting Church," A quiet corner of town a church stands, every morning it worships a different god, with different disciples and a drastically different interior."
The Flash," Some evenings right before the end of sunset, as the top of the sun rests on the horizon. Strong flashes of light travel across the horizon, in perfect time and always the same direction."
The Roving Fairy Ring," Fairy rings are a common sight, however this one moves several meters a day. It seems to have a path and ones who care for the mushrooms are said to be blessed with good fortune."
Tangled hair house," An odd boarding house atop a hill, many visit, only those with short hair are ever seen to leave."
The grocer on the corner," An old man running the grocer on the corner, never seen to leave. Nor any supplies ever arrive, the shop is however fully stocked regardless of how much custom he has."
The painted man," Many have told this story. In a painting one sees a man staring out at them from the background, this crude figure will then be seen again and again. From other art to graffiti to drawings by children this figure is seen."
The screaming hospital children," The hospital is plagued in the darkest parts of the night by the screams of children. The wards sleep soundly. Many have searched for the source of the screams, but they seem to come from all around."
The Kings Sun," Visitors of the King's castle note that the sun always shines behind him. In the magnificent stained glass throne room the Kings face is always drowned out by the sun behind him. Even in clouds or low sun, the room is always lit the same."
The Upward Path," A stretch of road in the middle of nowhere, objects roll uphill, caravans are to superstitious to use it."
The Upward Falls, A waterfall in the deep jungle that flows upstream. Leads to a plateau that seems otherwise inaccessible.
The Empty Brothel," The brothel in town is always empty, all day every day. Many claim to be patrons and speak well of it."
The Personal Library," A small library, with no librarian. Any book taken disappears after a day. Always seems to have the books one desires."
The Statue of Tears," A statue in town. It appears to cry when looked at. When too many stare, the tears become blood."
The Squalid Soup Pot," A huge pot in an impoverished slum, it is ate from constantly but never seems to empty. Many find the contents disgusting."
The River Woman," The rivers here run fast, a popular place for many to end their lives. However many who come for that reason see a woman across the river, the woman has a face of anguish. The observers of this woman become overrun with guilt and return home."
The Fire in the Desert," This desert is a vast an empty place, barely a cactus breaks up the rolling dunes. During the night a faint orange glow is seen behind many of the dunes."
The Bottle in the ship," The port has reported from time to time, and empty boat floats into harbor. In the boat, a single bottle of what appears to be wine rests in the center. None have dared to taste it, and the bottles only build up."
The call of the past," A opening in the trees, just outside the settlement, odd sounds can be heard. People hear what they heard before the last time they slept."
Case of the vanished people," In the village of Oxhead, housing 50 people, every day someone is missing, without trace. The next day, they're back, not remembering being gone at all and completely unchanged, and a new person has disappeared."
Riddle of the masked man," Every morning at sunrise a masked person walks into town straight from the north, stands perfectly still until sunset, and walks on towards the south. He reappears the next day."
The lone rancher," Out in the countryside there's a large grain farm, easily one of the largest in the area. Only a single person is found at the farm at work; an old emaciated man with long white beard. The farm runs splendidly and the old man insists he needs no help running it."
Come little children," Yesterday, three children went into the woods to collect berries and did not return. During the night, a foul abysmal odour unlike anything imaginable permeated the town. The next day, the children came back... nine years older."
The Rain of Cadavers, One night the inhabitants of the town of Bargrund woke up to see the carcasses of dead cows raining down on them from a clouded sky. The dead cows cause much damage and injury to structures and people and the clouds have a violet tint to them.
Case of the Eyes," An unblinking humanoid eye the size of a football has appeared on people's doors on the side turning in, rooted into the wood by black tendrils. The eyes do nothing but stay where they are. Unblinking."
The King's Crown," The royal crown of the palace belonging to a long line of monarchs has a habit of getting lost. It appears at random spots in the palace all the time, and disappears from where you last put it."
Cookies to the people," This winter morning, every household in the entire realm woke to find a pile of cookies somewhere in the house. Even beggars, thieves, cultists and homeless people got them. They are quite delicious."
Gambling hazards," Recently, the gamblers in town have experienced that every time a die rolls a 1, the next rolls automatically are 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 without fail. The die then behaves normally until another 1 is rolled. No-one knows what this means."
The sleeping giant, A cloud giant appeared in the town square two months ago and has been sleeping ever since. All attempts to wake her has failed. She still breathes but hasn't moved.
Colour of love," Every morning, a rose sprouts from the ground at a random spot in the city. Anyone and everyone within 60 feet of the rose fall in love with the last person they laid eyes upon. Every day the rose is in a new place."
The Silence of the Rats," Recently, all rats in town has turned completely and utterly silent. No sound when they move, no squeaks or padding of rat feet. Nothing."
The Tireless Spinning Wheel," Across the river in a secluded grove, there is a rickety spinning wheel doing its work. Clackety clack! Clackety clack! It yields no thread, only the omnipresent sound...Clackety clack! Clackety clack!"
The Broken Puppet, A traveling merchant has an intricate puppet that he refuses to sell. The puppet shares many of the same physical characteristics as the merchant. Did it just move?
Holey Moly," A hole suddenly appears on the outskirts of a small village with a pole of dirt next to it. As the villagers begin filling it with dirt, another hole begins to appear elsewhere in the village, at the same rate that the old one is being filled."
The Shadowed Sundial, The village sundial's shadow has suddenly frozen in place. It doesn't react to any light sources cast upon it.
Terrible Turnips," Why does all the food here taste like turnips?! Give me back that sweet, succulent, turkey-leg taste!"
Prisoner's Dilemma," A pair of non-identical twin prisoners have just been delivered to the city jail. Every night, they seem to switch cells, despite being kept on completely different levels."
"Hook, Line, & Sinker"," The local fishing hole has dried up overnight, and the fishermen are distraught. But now fish are turning up in the most outlandish places, like Archibald's bathwater and pierced atop Helga's weathervane!"
Groundhog Day, There's a small settlement where the inhabitants do the exact same thing every day at the same time. Like clockwork.
Spick & Span, I never bother doing dishes anymore. Especially since they are spotless when I wake up!
See Right Through You, There is a small boy whose skin is gradually becoming more translucent. Every day it seems that he is harder and harder to see. It's happening to others now too...
The Empty Schooner," A fully-stocked ship docks in the harbor. Nobody is onboard, but there are may signs of recent activity like dirty plates, half-swabbed decks, etc."
Candelabra Capers," There is an old candelabra in the bell-tower that is bolted to the table. Whenever somebody enters the room, all of the candles become lit until the person exits. Any attempt to put out the flames only cause them to burn brighter."
The Blank Book," There is a book that goes completely blank after you read it. Everybody reads something different, but it is always very personal and analogous to that person's life."
The Final Chime," The bells chime as you would expect during the day, but come midnight... It is always the same. Eight chimes. A pause, then bong... bong... bong... THUNK"
The Hungry Book," Attempting to write in this book is futile, as anything written in the tome slowly fades away, no matter how much ink is used, until it is blank again. Oh, and once it's done absorbing the ink it smacks its pages as if they were lips, quite a disconcerting sight."
The Razor Road," This apparently plain cobblestone road in the forest looks innocent enough, but walk upon it, and it will feel as if you were walking on a bed of nails."
The Midnight Well," Most of the time, this well gives out perfectly good drinking water. Sometimes however, the pail will return from the depths of the well filled with a viscous black liquid..."
The Inn's Worst Bed," If you are desperate enough for a place to sleep, this average looking bed will do, but you will invariably be visited that night by dreams of drowning in a sea of insects."
A Curious Statue," ""Wot, the statue? It's reckon'd ta be the towns founder. Weird how it always looks like its facing you innit! The tricks carvers can pull with perspective these days..."""
The Conundrum of the Cat," Wherever the party goes, one of their number keeps seeing the same black cat. It's impossible it can be a coincidence, for the cat they keep seeing has a distinct crescent of white fur on its forehead. No matter how hard they look, they never spot it following them from place to place, and if they search they never find it hiding amidst the wagons of any caravan they might join. But no matter where they travel (even on other planes), no matter how quickly they manage to get there (even by teleportation), it is always there first. Every time it appears, the situation is such that the only person who has line of sight to the cat is the one character who always sees it. To the other characters the cat is a mere figment, and a cause for worry about the mental health of their friend."
The Enigma of the Evil Eye," The city of Skarsdale is cursed; the symbol of the Evil Eye keeps appearing around the city. Burned into a wooden windowsill. As frost on a window in winter. Baked into bread. Items knocked over fall into the shape of it. It's never done deliberately (who would do that?) and it's appearances are seemingly random, all except one. Every morning, without exception, the eye is daubed in blood on the city-facing wall of Skarsdale Castle, above the drawbridge. Even when watched all night, the mark appears as if by magic - but no magic is detected."
The Mystery of the Melody," A song can be heard drifting across the city at night, but only by a handful of people. Without fail, those people abandon their lives the very next morning to go off and realise their unfulfilled dreams."
The Obfuscation of the Occult," On the third day of the third week of each month, spellcasters throughout the kingdom mysteriously misremember all their lore, spells, and rituals. Any attempt to use magic on this day results in mayhem, and may possibly be dangerous (treat as wild magic surge)."
The Problem of the Pants that Walked," The people of Hollowbrook have a problem - they are running out of clothes. As of a week ago, any clothes left unworn (for instance, when hanging to dry after being washed) rise up into the air, pulling and allowing themselves to be ripped if need be to escape. They gather together as raggamoffyns (constructs composed of scraps of cloth - see The 3rd edition Monster Manual II or google for more info)."
The Puzzle of the Pupils," The little mountain town of Urmster is a happy one. Everyone is friendly, and treats each other like family. It seems idyllic, and a visitor has a perfectly wonderful time there, enjoying the ambience, the hot springs, and the many beautiful local walks. Yet a perceptive visitor may notice,ever so occasionally, the glimpse of something strange in the pupils of the townsfolk. Here one minute, gone the next, it's easy to think you imagined it: the very image of the townsperson, reflected in their own eye."
The Quandary of the Queue," While passing through town one day, the party see a queue of people backed up from a door in the wall. There is no signage to suggest what might be beyond the door. Hundreds of people are waiting to get in, and the queue goes right round the corner of the street. When they return this way they see the queue looking just as long. Close observation shows that every time someone goes through the door, which happens every two minutes and thirty seven seconds another person joins the back of the queue. Furthermore, they are the same people, on a repeating cycle. Yet no one comes out of the door and there is no rear entrance. If they try to get closer to the door to see what's inside, the people in the queue accuse them of queue-jumping and get belligerent, forming up as a mob to prevent the PCs skipping the line. If the party back up, they return exactly to their correct places in the queue."
The Question of the Queen's Betrothal," The Queen is getting married! The only thing is, no one seems to know where her mysterious suitor Lord Abgarde came from, and no one even seems curious. The party are sought out by one of the castle's kitchen maids, who was away from the town caring for her dying father on the night the engagement was announced. When she returned to the castle, she found it was as though Lord Abgarde had always been there and everyone thought his engagement to the The Queen had lasted an entire year. Only she could see things as they truly were. The party, like everyone else in the city, have false memories regarding the bethrothal (ideally set this up so that the players themselves have no reason to believe her. Do this WAY in advance by feeding them news from the castle, or if they visit, letting them see Lord Abgarde. They should really question whether or not these memories are false)."
The Riddle of the Raider's Ship," The people of Greenvale woke morning to find their sheep grazing contentedly around the hull of a sailing vessel with the flag of the East Island Raiders, mysterious transported onto the chalk downs. The pirate crew were all dead, their bodies each laid out on the grass nearby, one hand outstretched Eastward - perhaps toward the ocean, fully five hundred miles away. The Raiders spoils was left untouched in the cargo hold, and a scrawled note pinned to one of the chests by dagger: Though these men will wrong you yet You must see and not forget Their captain will be your own get Heed this lesson or your fates are set."
The Secret of the Sauce," After tasting the meatballs at a particular roadside inn, Ikea's Table (named after the fabled table of the goddess of home and hearth, Ikea) the party feel compelled to return there as regularly as possible for more of the dish. If asked why it is so good, the innkeeper's wife (also the cook) will only say that it's all thanks to her secret sauce. There is nothing magical about the food."
The Tree of Justice," There's a single grave outside town, beneath a tree, the hanging tree. The grave the only person from town to ever commit a murder in the town's history. But now every morning, a new member of town is hanging from the tree......"
Fire Wyrm," The lights come in the fog, always with the fog, like a great wyrm from the mountains, and then the town that sees them is no more. Rumour says the Wyrm is moving closer to the city. (13th Warrior Weeee)"
Pants!?," No one in town owns any pants, every time someone brings a pair they disappear by the next morning. The tailor has completely given up making new pairs."
The Wishing Well," The well in town is said to grant a wish to those who are deserving, but everyone who has had their wish be granted, is changed.... What price have they paid?"
Ghost Town," The town is completely empty, but everything carries on as normal. Doors open and close, the ovens are fired up and bread is made, the forges and kitchens, everything is working. But there are no people....."
The Harp of Eternity," The music of a harp emanates from a tower just outside of town. The people of the town report they've never heard the harp stop their entire lives, even the elders recall it from the day they were born. They say that the no one has ever heard it stop, for decades before any of them were alive."
Fountain of Sacrifice," In the center of town is a fountain that never empties and is constantly running, every morning a small puddle of blood has been found near it. But recently the puddle's have been getting larger and the homeless population has been shrinking."
Laughing Disease," Everyone who enters the city starts to laugh uncontrollably, only the locals are immune, and they violently expel any outsiders and rob them of all their possessions. All the while screaming about how it's not funny, and the laughter is an insult to them, and this is their punishment for mocking the town."
The Talking Dogs," The town is populated by sentient talking dogs, they go about their business as any normal town would, but every night as the bell tolls midnight the entire town is filled with human screaming and canine howling."
Alchemist's Punishment," The town is completely empty, in the center lies a single vial filled with crimson liquid, tracks in the dirt all lead to this vial from every direction then stop, with none leading away. Above the Vial a sign says, the guilty shall suffer."
The Burning Pillar, A 300ft high pillar of flame has burst out from where a house used to stand in the city. No one remembers who lived in the house or what it looked like.
The Shallow Mine," Miners go in, resources come out, but if you walk into the mine, it deadends about 50ft. down the shaft, and there are no veins to be seen."
The Extra Child," A mother calls her children home, ""Peter! Mary! Estelle! Cobb! It's dinnertime! She stands at the door and waits. Three children enter the house. Satisfied, the mother closes the door. This happens every night."
The Dead Strangers," There is a village where, once a month, a corpse shows up, strung up in the town square. The corpse is not identifiable, but no one in the village is missing."
The Silver Raven," You wake up covered in blood in a room full of corpses. You have a small silver raven trinket that you've never seen before on your person. You don't remember the past 6 hours. Everywhere you go, ravens are everywhere, staring at you."
Merchant's Incense," A merchant is selling incense that he claims never runs out, a claim that appears to be true, as he has ever-burning incense on display at his shop. No one ever buys the incense."
The Mirror Painting," There is a painting. If a person spends at least five minutes looking into it, the painting changes to a painting of that person."
The Death Carriage," An unmanned carriage runs the same route indefinitely. If anyone touches it, they immediately die."
Masquerade," Once a year, everyone in the town puts on masks and throws a huge party. Everyone in town denies this ever happens when questioned. There is no evidence that it happens, either."
Forest Circles," Deep in the forest, if one looks hard enough, one can find perfectly arranged circles of trees. Attempts to return to the same location inevitably fail, but other circles always show up in places they weren't before."
The Case of the Mysterious Case," After a successful tavern-crawl (after a successful dungeon-crawl), the party finds a leather-wrapped present waiting for them in their living quarters. It has a heart on it. ""What... kind of... leather... wait, did the package just blink?"""
The Book of Confusion," A book is found in a king's library, but upon first examination, there are no words upon the pages. After flipping through the pages for a certain amount of time, the reader cannot tear themselves away from the book, nor attempt to communicate what is inside the book. If the book is taken away from the reader, the reader will usually kill themselves within a month."
The Whistler," As you stroll through the forest, you hear a faint whistling tune. Upon following the tune, you meet a man with his back turned to you. Upon saying hello, he will turn around and greet you warmly. The only problem is, the man has no lips."
The Unmanned Tavern," No spell can detect why or how the patrons drinks get filled, but whenever they aren't looking, they always look back with their drinks filled and their pockets a piece lighter."
The Case of the Open Windows," The party has been in a town frequently and they've been hearing about prominent figures in the locality suddenly dying of blunt force trauma. The only real connection between all of them, besides them being well known in the town, is the open window in the room they're found."
The Unreadable Books," In the castle library, the words inside books have been vanishing, replaced by unreadable messages in unknown symbols; more books change each day; comprehend Language spells result in psychic backlash against caster; assistant scribe hid in library overnight, heard sounds of scratching and moaning coming from books, saw nothing."
The Tree Haters," Wild-eyed travellers, arriving from the east road, urge everyone they meet to cut down trees before it is too late; shudder in horror if asked for details; grab axes and assail local trees if locals unwilling, will not stop unless physically restrained."
The Darkness of Gravedigger's Cave," In a Gravedigger's Cave behind the cemetary outside town, all light sources fail, light spells fizzle, darkvision sees black-and-white television static."
The Offering of the Ants," Uncountable thousands of ants descend on town, pick up bread crumbs, sugar, or other food, vanish through cracks in earth leading to appropriate local dungeon."
The Leering Portraits," Inhabitants of castle report seeing subjects of paintings moving out of the corners of their eyes, making rude gestures and then snapping back to normal poses when examined."
The Ritual of the Vanishing Children," Local ritual requires that every nine years, a brave child volunteer to enter the holy of holies in the Temple to the Unknown God. The children who enter are never seen again."
The Petrified Dragons," There are tales of a nigh-inaccessible ledge, high in the mountains, from which it is possible to see the shapes of two impossibly lifelike gargantuan stone dragons locked in vicious combat, clinging to a cliff where no sculptor could have reached."
The Inscrutable Judge," Locals fear and revere an ancient marble statue of a stern headsman, that stands beside the road at one end of the only bridge in miles. Most travellers pass without incident, but in one in a thousand cases the statue springs angrily to life and decapitates a horrified passerby with its enormous razor-edged stone axe, before settling back into its previous pose. No pattern has yet been found in these attacks."
The Coin Sowers," A village has been blessed for many years with unusually bountiful harvests, even while other farmland nearby has been struck with famine. The villagers attribute their success to an unusual custom -- they sow copper coins along with their grain. No one knows what happens to the coins themselves."
The Blurry Adventures," The Lord Mayor of Hih-ven has suddenly started turning blurry. The Witch doctor outside the edge of town points to a Druidic cult. The Cult points to a well-regarded psychiatrist in the town proper. The psychiatrist thinks that the Mayor has been fairly unsure of himself lately. Who's lying, and what happens when he turns too blurry..."
The Adjudicator," A wizard is willing to give the highest bidder her greatest desires and wishes. What is on auction? The bidders' hopes, dreams, sanity, loved ones, life, and lineage. Who are the contestants? Who is the wizard? What are the shadowy figures backstage?"
Red Dream," Last night, the party had a strange dream. A plump man in crimson and gold robes stood in the middle of a village chanting inaudibly. In the middle of the keep around you, there is a shiny bright green half-helm the size of a merchant wagon burning high into the sky. The standards around you show a field of blue with a white and black tower. A crowd chants, ""Nemesio, Nemesio, Nemesio"" in a building crescendo. You all awake, and the sky has turned red as far as you can see."
Sing song ding dong," Everyone in the little village is all smiles, day and night. The town sings and dances to a tune no-one in the party can hear, performing on the streets, in impromptu fashion, before going back to their daily duties humming and shaking to the beat. The birds chirp in tune, and the bushes rustle like shakers when the wind blows just right. What's the name of the bard they keep repeating in the song? The one with the incredibly rhyme-able name?"
Stoneveil," A small town of gorgeous, porcelain-skinned people, nestled in a mountain's foothills has been shaken with the sudden petrification of some of the pillars of the community."
Virtue," One night a month, a ghostly violin can be heard peeling in the distance, near the village graveyard. Some have said the dead rise to dance to the tune, leading the rest to stay away."
The Self-made Man," A humanoid figure can be seen sculpting himself out of the clay on a nearby riverbank over the course of each day. When questioned, he replies that he's very busy at the moment but would be happy to chat once he's done. At dusk, he gives a final sigh of satisfaction before stiffening and toppling over, usually breaking into many pieces from the fall."
Weeping Willows," A small copse of trees stands in a desolate old field full of dried grasses. From each long branch drips a golden, sweet fluid that is warming and rejuvenating to the taste. Any who drink it directly from the tree are unusually productive for 24 hours, followed by 48 hours of depression and desolation. Bottling the fluid removes this effect, though it retains the taste of sweet morning dew."
Constructing Materials," A town is being slowly deconstructed, brick-by-brick, with each piece of material floating slowly north to a large, orderly pile of similar material. Each day a brick or two is taken, and the townsfolk have become experts at shoring up and repairing the damage."
Parabol," Small, presumably fae-creatures have been glimpsed walking through the nearby woods at night. Each one's passage is followed by bizarre, screeching music and only their vivisected corpses have ever been found."
The Hall of Inverse Reactions," Tazniss Alley is a street in the slums of a large city. All emotional reactions are inverted there. Insults and crimes are met with generosity, while favors and compliments invoke disgust and outrage. Tragedies bring joy and good news causes despair."
The Antimagic Masks Case," Two professors from the local academy were found dead on a hill, wearing winter robes despite the summer heat and masks warded against magic. One held a note: ""Fourth hour: Meet at the hill; Sixth hour: Ingest potions; await signal; don masks"""
The Imaginary Killer," A week ago a family moved into town whose daughter has an imaginary friend named Mr. Daggers. Every day since then, a child has come home sobbing and shaking, swearing that their imaginary friend has been stabbed to death by a dagger-wielding killer."
The Faceless Mayor," Every one in town has met the mayor, but can't provide a single detail about their appearance. The locals joke about their leader's nondescript looks, but a few questions will make it apparent that their mayor is literally indescribable."
The Very Heavy Box," As a merchant was driving his wagon through town last week, a box fell from it and landed in the middle of the road. The locals have tried moving the obstruction, but though it seems to be a normal wooden box, it can't be opened and can't be moved."
The Backward Chain," The town is in a panic, as its food chain has been reversed. Cats are chasing dogs, rats are chasing cats, field mice and snakes are somehow dragging hawks out of the sky, and the townspeople find themselves hunted by all manner of game and cattle."
The Growing Houses," The town's buildings are slowly growing from their tops, at a rate of about one story per fortnight. No doors lead to the new rooms, but entering through the windows with a ladder will reveal that the completed stories are furnished and show signs of use."
Bardic Synchronicity," The city's twelve bards are having a feud. ""The Dreamer's Ditty"" is the city's most popular new song, first heard in twelve separate inns on the same hour of the same night, but each inn's bard claims to have written it, and all appear sincere."
The Third Ear," Everything known to any of the town's children is known to all of the town's children. The children see nothing unusual about this, explaining matter-of-factly that they ""hear from each other"" through their ""third ears."""
Back in a Little While," Throughout the town, seemingly happy people have been telling loved ones ""wait for me a while"" or ""I'll be back in a bit,"" then killing themselves. Days later, the graves of some who have died this way have been found open and empty."
The Curious Case of Thaddeus Thornwell," Old Man Thaddeus Thornwell, who has been famous in town for a dozen years for sitting by his apple tree and telling crazy old stories to the local children, has suddenly begun aging backwards. In just the last week, he appears to have lost ten years, his hair having grown back and his back becoming less hunched. He experiences weird nose bleeds, and occasionally, his eyes grow red for seemingly no reason."
Crazy Witch Woman," Madame Goosho, the local old ""witch woman,"" has sealed herself inside her home, refusing to leave. All the windows and doors are nailed shut. Town leaders assume she's just gone batty."
"Why, Crow, Why?"," A crow sits atop the grave of recently-deceased Alathar Dane, and appears to be holding a red gem in its talons. Anyone who approaches is attacked by the bird, and it dexterously side-steps any missles fired at it."
The Town Close to Death," Every day a new person in a small town hears whispering in their ears. Its words are incomprehensible, and usually ends in disaster."
I Know That Guy," A man is extremely famous throughout the entire kingdom. His actions, decisions, and general self are all looked up top. The catch: nobody has ever seen him."
Screams," Screaming is heard deep in the forest, although it doesn't sound anything like person."
Earthquake?, A town claims that at night a rumbling can be heard. It does not sound natural.
Everyday," Everyday someone wanders to the lake, never to be seen again. Everyday somebody new begins to live in the town."
A House," A lone house sits in the middle of a dense forest. With smoke coming out of the chimney one would assume someone lives there. However, upon closer inspection, the inside is dark and the house is empty."
Crystals," Legend says that when the Twin Crystals are combined that a portal to ""paradise"" will be opened. No one has ever seen the crystals, and no one knows where they are."
Dragon of Coal," Many speculate the existence of a coal dragon. In the town of Xelspear, black acid seems to plague the farms, and cattle goes missing. Reports of a large shadow gliding through the air does not go unnoticed, nor does the fact that the black acid hardens into coal."
The Seeing Ring," A simple silver band with a black opal setting in the center. When put on, the ring sheds an unnatural warmth. The stone spins, revealing an eye that stares at the wearer."
The Cemetery, The inscriptions on the tombstones in the large cemetery outside of town are always changing. Even the stones of the freshly buried. No one has ever witnessed the change.
The Earworm, Everyone in town you encounter is humming or whistling the same eerie tune. Eventually you find yourself humming it too...
Shrinky Village," Every week, food appears in the city. This has been going on many years and the city thrives (read: no food making ability) because of it. However, this week the food is causing unknown side effects. People that eat it shrink to the size of 1/6th their original height."
A lively dream," A village has suddenly started having bad dreams. They all seem to be able to remember clips from their dream and it all has the same theme. Soon the dreams are exactly the same. Soon after that, the images are seen out of the corner of people's eyes, but disappear when looked at directly. Soon after that, the monsters are shadows, but can be looked at directly, then they start killing."
Hide and Squeak," All the rats in the city have mysteriously vanished. This seemed a good thing, until piles of dead rat-bitten cats were found last month, and the cities food stores have begun depleting at an unexplainable rate. Last week all the former rat-killers vanished from their beds. And now, every night at the stroke of midnight, an eery otherworldly bell can be heard tolling from somewhere deep under the city."
Insert Interesting Title Here," Every time anyone within 10 miles of the mysterious tower falls asleep, they dream they are being hunted by the embodiment of their worst nightmares. If they die in their dream they die in real life. The effects are slowly expanding outward from the tower, threatening a nearby settlement."
The Puppet Salesman," Once every week, a kindly old man living on the outskirts of town sets up a small market stall where he sells beautifully hand-crafted puppets. All who browse his collection long enough will find one puppet that looks exactly like them."
The Innocent Rat Plague," There are no rat-holes in plain sight anywhere to be found in town, no horrible stench or diseases run rampant and food will never go missing when left unattended. But whenever an old floorboard is replaced, a patch of dirt is disturbed or a particularly old piece of furniture needs to be moved, at least one rat always seems to be hiding just there and they always seem to get away through some small crack or hole somewhere."
The Adventurer's Respite," There's a small hut on a hill besides the road, far away from any town or city. When travellers pass by they will always see a warm, orange light coming through a window and smell a mouthwatering smell of freshly cooked supper wafting towards them. The lady of the house, whose husband will likely be home late today, will always welcome weary travellers, offering them a place by the hearth, a wonderful meal and a soft bed for the night. All who go to sleep in the hut will wake up the next morning in rotten, lice-infested sheets in the wooden ruins of something that must have been a home many, many years ago, the decaying and brittle skeleton of whoever once lived here still lying on the muddy floor by the hearth."
The Quiet Village," This tiny village is contained within wooden palisade walls, ending at two usually open gates at the front and back. No sound can be heard from the village, and once you pass through its gates, no sound can be heard at all. A pan banging next to your ear is as silent as anything could ever be. This effect exists only within these wooden walls, and none of the townsfolk seem to notice."
A Sea of Dirt," This empty town is devoid of life, but all its buildings and items remain intact. By day, it's a spot where a traveler can rest his weary head in a featherbed once belonging to some noble, or find a treasure of some kind that a blacksmith had tucked away. By night, the ground changes. Living things that touch the ground fall into it like a stone into water, and no amount of swimming can save them; they are pulled down into the unknown. The buildings are away from one another, making it hard to get from place to place. The town will not let you leave without a fight."
The Missing Parents," There are no adults in this village. The kids rule in their place, and though they do not do the things that adults would do, they seem to be surviving fine. Nearby towns have not reported any of their adults coming to them, nor has anyone seen a sign from them. The only clue you have to go on is the ferocity by which the children protect the town hall's basement..."
Liturgy to the Dead," In the woods there sits a black stone, dark as night, and large as ten men on each other's shoulders. On the plateau of this rock stands ten people in a circle, old and young, men and women, and of different races. They do not acknowledge the presence of any who disturb them, and cannot be moved from the spot they stand in. In the center of their circle sits a second black stone in the shape of an egg. As day night falls and day breaks, they are unchanged. Now, though, there are only nine."
The Mad Hatter," At a local haberdashery, a hatter creates works that astonish and amaze even the most sophisticated of hat enthusiasts. No matter what price he sells them for, people fight to be the one to buy them. What seems odd, though, is the faint magical aura on each hat that nobody else seems to see. What caught your attention was that the aura felt a lot like an undead..."
The Monk in the Field," In the middle of this field sits a monk, whose strong powers can be felt a mile away. There is nothing but grass around him on all sides but one; in front of him sits a forest. This monk is engaged in heavy prayer, a ritual perhaps, and cannot move or speak. From his tattered cloths and the growth around him it appears he's been at this for a very long time, years maybe, sustained by some otherworldly force. All you know is, the more you look at the forest, the heavier you feel, and the more inclined you feel to stopping this man's prayers."
Lost and found," A little box on the corner of a street in a small, otherwise unremarkable fishing town. Nothing special per se, where it not that objects inside always find their original owner, and have included everything from solitary socks to priceless artifacts and even the kings wedding ring."
A beggar and a thief," a simple beggar known as richie. People who come in contact often lose things, you could toss him a coin and find your earrings gone. Often accused, he's been frisked more than you could count, but never have any of the objects been found. He still sits on the same corner every day, not a coin to his name, watched closely, called a beggar and a thief daily."
The calmest place on earth," A small shack in a region tormented by the elements. 3 floods, a forest fire, 4 tornadoes and an earthquake later, nothing of the surroundings looks the same, yet the small shack still stands, untouched by nature."
The waypoint," A non-magical rock, often used by travellers as a waypoint due to it's recognisable shape. Although you're pretty sure it was standing in the woods last time you saw it, not in the middle of a corn field.."
The knocking," There are lots of tales of people dying peacefully in their sleep, with eyewitnesses saying the night before, the deceased got up and opened the door, reacting to a knock only they could hear."
I Know That Guy!," Every inn or tavern in every town, village, or city the adventurers go to has a bartender that looks and sounds exactly alike. He always goes by a different name, but everyone in the party recognizes him from each of the other places. No matter how hard he is questioned or interrogated, he has no idea what the adventurers are talking about if they confront him with it."
The Beekeeper's Daughter," The girl was tending the bees near their cottage at the edge of the forest; whatever happened to her, she left no trace."
The Woodcutter's Axe," Stan the woodcutter went outside to get to work, but his axe wasn't where he left it; he found it nearby, buried in the skull of a man he's never seen."
"The Butcher, the Baker, and the Brothelkeeper", A pair of local businessmen (the butcher and the baker) have been acting very strangely after a night of drunken revelry at Madame Biggs' brothel.
Oldtown Tavern," The barkeep at the Oldtown Tavern swears the glasses keep rearranging themselves, and the barmaid saw something disturbing when tossing out the scraps in the back alley."
Dark Homecoming," The secretive Steelmoon Academy was founded on the site of an ancient monastery a few decades ago. Pupils who were admitted to the school had never returned to their families. Last month, one did return..."
The Burned Tree," This morning, the locals found that the ancient oak tree standing in the center of the village is dead and burned; no one heard the crackle of flames nor felt the heat from what must have been a massive conflagration in the night."
The Twitching Eye," The captain of the watch brought the mummified eye that was around one of the graverobbers' necks back to his office along with several other items that might serve as evidence. Yesterday morning when he arrived at his office, he had found the eye had rolled off his desk and tucked itself into a corner of the room. This morning, the eye was in the same corner and a ghost was rifling through his desk."
The Stolen Recipe," After a night like any other night, a well-known alehouse is broken into. The burglars managed to locate the hidden safe and crack it open. Not a single coin was taken despite there being several hundred. The only item stolen was the owner's only copy of a centuries-old recipe for brewing golden ale."
Two Lost Boys, Campfires have been seen at night in the ancient stone ruin. A local farmer went to investigate and found nothing. The following day two boys went to play among the ruins and they never came back.
Locked Royal Rooms, The King has been murdered while at his summer palace from the capital city. He is dead of a knife wound in his own bedchamber. There does not appear to be any forced entry and the guards posted saw and heard nothing. The palace's soul gatehouse reports that no one came or left the palace last night.
The Big Tip," When her favorite patron, a member of the City Guard, stopped coming in to see her at the urban tavern where she works, the barmaid was a little disappointed. When someone left a purse with her name on it containing 5,000 gold pieces, she was shocked but cautiously accepting of it. When someone left a purse with her name on it containing a severed ear, she panicked."
The Stitched-Lips," The high brother of the Storm King's Temple of Winter has been found dead on the temple grounds. The freshly burnt-down candles, the half-eaten supper, and the open books and notes on his reading table suggest that he was interrupted while taking his evening meal alone in his study. The immediate cause of death is unclear, but his lips have been sewn together neatly with fine silk thread."
The Bridge of Crabs," On a thin strip of land separating two bodies of water , only a mile and half wide, sand continues away from the beach stretching across the land and connecting two the opposing beach. No trees or plants grow here, just a 100 yard wide desert bridge across the land."
Compass Jester's Fist," On the road between here and the capitol, just off the road, a giant three fingered fist carved from some magnetic stone juts from the ground."
XXL Sweaters, Someone or something is enlarging Farmer Greenbrows sheep to 3X their size.
The Battalion Tree," A large old gnarled tree in the forest has a special property: when someone touches a gold coin to the tree, the sound of a 1000 swords unsheathing echo through the forest."
Druid Grove," In these woods is a well maintained grove of trees of many different species. Some shouldn't even be in this climate. one trait they all share is the faces that rise out of the bark. All the faces maintain the look of peaceful slumber. All except for the very last tree, which bears no leaves, it's branches ending in scorched limbs. The face on this trunk is frozen in a scream of anguish."
Mystery Name," Its like a statue or something. I guess it makes you procrastinate, I'll describe it better later."
The Kitchen Table Conch," Instead of hearing the ocean or the sound of the blood in your own ears, once a day this conch emits a mundane conversation between a family. Mother, father, son, daughter, and grandma are all discussing their boring daily experiences."
One still cares," A long dead necromancer is buried in the town cemetery. Every year on his birthday and anniversary of his death, someone leaves a tulip and a bottle of wine on his grave."
The Alley of Forgotten Toys, People who walk down this alley late at night often find toys that they lost as children.
Spider Town," A halfling village, far from major cities, is draped in webs. The townsfolk live in harmony with the spiders, but what do they need protection from?"
Lost Generation," It's harvest time, and all the villagers are gathered in town for a brief harvest ceremony. There are more women than men. There seem to be no young men between about 18-23 years old."
Frozen Village," Out in the mountains; people out and about on daily errands -- frozen in place, some mid step; unmoving and unaware."
Nursery Rhyme, The children sing a strange little rhyme. Everyone knows the words and no one knows where it came from. Probably from some long-lost wet nurse. Why then does the ruling council cringe when they hear it? And who is the foolish king the rhyme tells of?
Wonderous Outhouse," This outhouse seems shabby on the outside, but inside it smells of mountain air and meadow flowers. A washbasin seems to fill itself and waste and feces seem to disappear down the hole."
Glittering Cloud, Out over the ocean there's a massive cloud that doesn't travel exactly with the wind. Staring at it sometimes yields a glimpse of something glittering.
Woman's Word, A local slang word can't be heard by men or boys.
Taste of Darkness," Recently when the sun goes down in the city, food and drink acquires a peculiar aftertaste."
Mismatched Mansion," Walking around the grounds outside, the East Wing of the mansion is much larger than it seems on the inside. The West Wing has an extra story on the inside than can be seen from outside."
Buzzing Hills," The hills seem to emit a faint buzz, until you get too close to them."
Locked Room in the Lords Manner, The local lord has a room in his castle he has never been able to open. What lies beyond?
The Hungry Prison," Each day a prisoner vanishes. The other guards refuse to talk about it, its clear they arent escaping so whats going on? (hint for DMs: Google DnD house hunter)."
The strange grandson, The team collects rare ingrediants for an old wizard. Then they meet his oddly wise grandson who wants them to do even more jobs.
Little Lost Lordlings, Strange tales of children in the forest living like knights and lords. Even stranger is the rumour that they never age. An old woman swears she saw her brother exactly the way he was the day he vanished.
The Tower of the Gods, A strange tower emerged recently. Though everyone seems to think it was always there. What strange tidings await inside?
Reality is not what it used to be, Children born in a certain village seem to have strange abilities. Reality warping magic.
Mirror Town," Right next to each other sit two cities. Exactly the reflection of the other down to the people. They say twins are always born. Each the exact opposite of the other. Who can you trust? (PS for extra fun give the good guys goatees, they will never see that coming)."
The tree of worlds, Inside this small tree there are portals to many other realms. Or are they?
The Lost Archives," A library as large as a city once existed, containing all the knowledge of the sentient races. However someone lost the map and now its nowhere to be found. How did they lose something so important?"
The Endless War and the Murdered King, In a small valley there exists a war that never ends. Those that worship the sun against those that worship the moon. Why does it never end? They are all cursed with immortality. Yet people keep attempting to murder the kings. who would do this and why?
Growing pains," Screams are heard in the middle of the night, random body parts growing bigger during the night. This invites the worst kind of tourists."
Blind luck," Anything can happen on the mountain, as long as nobody is not looking."
Sharp dressed man," An order of shoes arrive in town with buyers names and 'prices' attached, all of which desperately in need of shoeing."
Not even half the woman you are!, A half (literally) woman appears at night stealing still pregnant women' unborn children. She appears to each person as themselves.
Tall tales," Any story or reason you can tell an old lady, has already been told to her before, she can't remember by who though, she knows the story and how it ends."
Evolution, There is a species of creature that evolves immediately under threat. Everyone is too scared to chase it down lest it evolve into something that eats them.
Undying," An ancient cave can transfer a sickness from one to another, but never back."
That's heavy," Things seem randomly weigh different from day to day, creating an interesting lifestyle for those living in the area."
Lair of the Trickster," The burial ground for the legendary group of heroes led by a man called the Trickster is said to contain his powerful sword. All of the locals are afraid to venture inside - not because of dark magic, or the undead. Legend says that the tomb itself plays pranks and tricks on all those who enter."
The Quiet Town," Upon first glance, this is a completely normal village. The local people don't talk much, and stay away from strangers. But come night, all of the citizens retreat inside and board their doors and windows. Come night, the undead come. These undead don't seem violent, and don't attack the party, all they want is inside the houses. Upon further inspection, these undead look an awful lot like the exact citizens you were just talking to."
The Wood Fort," The legendary stronghold of Woodfort has never been breached, despite being built out of wood. It was said to have been built with an extinct magical kind of tree, and cannot be burned or easily broken. But nearby, the surrounding forest has slowly been dying over time - ever since the fort was built. Legends say the forest used to house all kinds of Fae, but none have been seen in a very long time."
Idle of the Town," This miniature horse is beloved by the townsfolk. They stop short of worshiping it but it is included in all major social functions and gatherings. Nobody can explain the appeal of this miniature horse, and outsiders can concoct no explanation for the enthusiasm and loyalty shown by the townsfolk towards the animal."
The Wandering Marsh," While travelling through a stretch of forest, adventurers pass through many small valleys where the ground is damp and the foliage is dead. Wherever they go, a swamp seems to block their path. When they backtrack, they find a swamp where there was none."
Divorce," Upon entering the village, one notices the air is still and there is strange dust covering nearly everything, even the people. The villagers claim many of their kind simply vanished and they are unable to leave the village grounds - they reappear on the other side when entering the nearby woods. The adventurers go to the nearby river past the tree-line and find an old dock with a shack and rowboat. Across the river is the exact same shack and boat, imperfections and all. Heading across the river, they find the exact same village mirrored and all the missing people from the first village."
The Silence," While travelling, the adventurers sometimes find themselves in a nearby place with no recollection of going there, often out of breath & with their weapons drawn."
My Child," In a small village, a mother has just given birth to her 7th, but only child; the first died at 1-month, the 2nd at 2 months, the 3rd at 4 months, the 4th at 8 months and the 5th after a year and a half & the 6th after 3 years. The 7th child is now 5 years old and looks identical to all the others. It also seems to remember the lives of its lost siblings."

Treasure Name,Treasure Type,Description

"So, what do we find in this enchanted woods?",LONG," Let's make this a 10k Event: You've read the post, please respond with some fun and flavorful consumable items that might be encountered in a magical wilderness."
Merryweather Lark feathers,Magic Feathers," These feathers are alright royal blue color with white and gold stripes running the lengths along the spine. Those who encounter the molted feathers of the Merryweather Lark often keep them as a souvenir, putting them in hats and on strings and such. Those who burn the feathers and remain in the vicinity of its smoke are protected from inclement weather and high winds. The aura of magical smoke lasts for 12 hours.'"
Chocolate Gold Coin,Magic Coin," This coin is appears as real as any other. It feels, smells, weighs, and tastes like real gold. However, as soon as someone bites into the coin, the wrapper gives way, and the coin is revealed to be made of horrendously chalky and bitter chocolate. Anyone who swallows the chocolate must make a DC 10 Constitution save. On a failure, all food and drink they eat for the next two weeks tastes like the bitter chalky chocolate."
Friendly Vine,Sentient Vine," A brush against your leg in the forest. Something tugging at your pack in the overgrowth. The friendly vine enjoys finding travelers to accompany. It may hitchhike with a group of wanderers by sneaking into their packs. Or it may pull a prank to introduce itself. The vine acts like a small, friendly creature and loves to help out. The the friendly vine can be commanded to act as a rope for any mundane (non-magical) purposes. After 1d4 days, the rope will become bored and seek out new travel companions. The vine is immune to any charm magic or anything that forces it to act against its own will."
Whisper Grass,Magic Grass," This tall grass is a bright pink. It can be used to send a message to another individual who possesses whisper grass. When used, the grass fades into another plane. The grass reappears on a roll of 19 or 20. Once picked, this grass holds its magical properties for 1d6 days. After that, the grass withers and turns black. If replanted, the ground around it burns and the grass dies. If smoked, the user makes a DC 15 Constitution check, and on a failure takes 2d10 Psychic damage. On a success, they feel a slight burn in their head, but then feel relaxed and calm."
Dewdrop Jewel,Mystic Gem," A gem in the shape of a dewdrop hangs from a gossamer string attached to a tree leaf. Those who study it and pass a DC 10 Wisdom check see it is made from a real dewdrop, frozen into a gem."
Fairy in a Jar,Trapped Creature," Someone has placed this helpless fairy in the most heinous of traps. Upon releasing this poor creature, they will thank their saviour by granting them one request. The fairy has very limited magical abilities, and cannot grant wishes. However, they are willing to do anything within their power. Upon completion of the request, the fairy will disappear, and attempt to get away with a small trinket from their benefactor. If caught, they will make up some excuse as to why they have or are taking it with them. If not released from the jar immediately, the fairy will become very annoyed, and upon release will simply steal something of value and disappear."
Foresight Fungus,Magic mushroom," This small white, flat-capped mushroom can be distinguished from its non-magical kin by the tiny iridescent blue spots on the underside of its cap. When you consume one of these mushrooms, you receive a brief vision of your near future. The vision doesn't give you specifics regarding things you could not know, but it does offer emotional clues as to whether the path on which you are currently traveling will bring you closer to your goals and whether there is danger ahead."
Giggleberries,Magic fruit," Found growing along the shores of peaceful lakes, giggleberries can induce a pleasant feeling of euphoria by those who consume them. Giggleberry bushes often grow in thorny brambles, producing copious amounts of golden to gold-red mottled berries twice a year, typically around the equinoxes. Pixies are particularly fond of them as these berries make an excellent addition to any merrymaking. It is best to be cautious, 1 in 10 giggleberry bunches plucked from a bush will be contaminated with noctwick mould."
Flower of Animal Friendship,Magic Flower," A white, trumpet-shaped flower with a very sweet smell known to calm nervousness. Grows only at the base of inhabited trees. A single bloom may be presented to a wild animal, as a symbol of peace and goodwill, in attempt to tame it for a short time."
Bitsy Berry Cake,Mystery Dessert," The tiniest piece of cake one has ever seen resting on a plate, complete with tiny silverware. A trap, set by a pixie? Or perhaps she simply forgot about it."
Prismatic Plume,Rare Feather," Large feathers occasionally shed by a very rare, invisible bird. Colors vary along the entire spectrum, and dipping one in water will color up to a 5x5ft. cube a rich hue matching the feather's color. Makes a very potent dye."
Empty Courage,Magic Item," A stoppered flask with nothing inside. Attached is a tag with the words ""Try It."" Inhaling the air from the bottle makes one decidedly braver. Advantage on all charisma checks for 10 minutes, followed by intense indigestion. The work of a tricky prankster sprite."
Catnap Clearing,Minor Landmark," A small glade filled with bunches of round, pillowlike flowers. Each gives off a slight aroma that if smelled up close, causes instant sleep for 1d4 hours on a failed CON save (DC 13) and drowsiness for 1d4 hours on a success. However, sleep victims wake up extremely refreshed and roll free hit dice equivelent to number of hours slept."
Pillow Blossom,Comfy Flower," A plant known to grow in Catnap Clearing. Its orblike blooms are full of petals, and roughly the size of a dinner plate. Makes a fantastic pillow, though withers quickly if harvested."
Fairy Floss,Useful Plant," Small flowers that eventually explode into giant balls of cottony fluff, which fairies then harvest and spin into thread for clothing. Come in all manner of bright and pastel colors. (May find a tiny drop spindle nearby as well.)"
Enlarge/Reduce Mushroom,Magic Fungus," Innocuous white, buttonlike mushrooms that grow in bunches. If eaten, cause one to grow or shrink in identical manner to the Enlarge/Reduce spell, for 1 minute. Randomly determined, no matter the size of the mushroom."
Meddling Mucus,Slime," This stuff coats rocks that lay under the willow trees in the feywild. If it touches the bare skin, however, it gives the party member a stuffy nose and makes them irritable for 1d4 minutes. After the time expires, they left out a sneeze that clears out the mucus."
Spitseed,Berry," This reddish berry releases pheromones that attract animals to eat it. One bite and they realize that it tastes terrible, so they spit the remains out. This is how the berry gets replanted. It does cook really nicely in soup, though."
Merry Mae,Flower," This flower releases pheromones that gives any creature within 5 feet pleasant memories of whatever happens while inside the radius. Flower is has thin, lengthy, yellow under petals with blue and purple shorter, rounded, overlapping petals on top. Some have used this to try to pick up dates."
EDM (Edible Dance Moss),Magic Moss, This moss pulses with colors across the entire spectrum and some unique to itself while emitting a lite pheromone in a 10ft. radius that makes creature what to dance to the rhythm of the pulsing lights if they fail a DC10 CON. saving throw. If eaten you must make a DC17 CON. saving throw or dance uncontrollably until you pass out from exhaustion.
Beautiful Pain,Tree, This large weeping willow blossoms in the spring with beautiful purple and blue flowers that lure creatures under its branches. Branches whose leaves and flowers petals are sharp as razor blades and while easy to dodge on a still day can become a deadly whirlwind if the breeze picks up. Small scavengers will usually take residence in the area as the tree can provide an easy meal if the branches swing across something vital.
gifts,Small Fey Creature," The Boggart is a fearsome little creature standing around the same height as it was when a brownie but with a bloated muscular physique. Boggarts cause mischief, mayhem, and misfortune to follow the offending party until it feels it has satisfied its grievances and turns back into a Brownie and moves to a new home. Boggarts have been known to bend or break tools around the home, leave its bodily waste on household furniture, shave residents of all body hair in their sleep, open animal pens, light crops on fire, or remove all the blueberries from a blueberry pie."
Barking Bark,Magic Tree Bark," This tree bark seems to affect trees at random and appear as slightly furry patches of bark on trees. While chewed you can speak with animals until you either spit it out or consume it all, at which point the magic fades away with no ill consequences except emitting the occasional bark for the next hour when trying to speak."
Cat's Eye,Magic Grass," If consumed, grants Darkvision 120ft. if you already have Darkvision you can see through magical darkness up to 60ft. Cat's Eye goes bad after one week from being picked and if consumed then you must pass a DC10 CON. saving throw or be blinded for 1d4 hours."
That One Plant,Magic Plant, A small bright blue shrub that grows on small grassy knolls. When consumed you forget the last 24 hours of your memory. (i.e. if you consume another one after already forgetting the last day then you forget the day before that as well. This continues for each one you consume.)
Sensor Root,Magic Tree Root," While this root is hard to find, it is easily identifiable by its green glowing veins. When rubbed against the forehead, this root allows you to sense vibrations generated near any tree within a 35 foot area. effectively you know where all moving things are within your immediate area. However this does not allow you to know what is moving around you, only that is something moving around you."
Rock,Pet stone," A normal looking stone. When touched it is bound. It will blink into pockets and bags, when not used it will start annoyingly blinking into shoes, sleeping bags or in front of your feet. It likes to swim and hates campfires."
The golden goose,Ornate pet, This golden feathered goose is often captured and traded. She lays eggs of emotions that infect everyone that eats of them. For example when you eat a one of huge sadness eggs you can't help but tear up over everything. Others have you high on joy when murdering your way through the feywild.
Beefsteak Tomatoes,Magic Fruit, The Beefsteak Tomato is an edible fruit that grows low to the ground in portions of the Feywild. One tomato is sufficient to provide food and water for a medium size creature for one day. The tomatoes rot 3 days after being picked.
Tree of plenty,Structure/Consumable," A twisting and curving apple tree with autumn leaves and abundant fruit on it. The fruit, disturbingly, appear normal but taste like cooked buffalo."
Lightbuttons,Magic Mushroom," They appear at first to be normal mushrooms, but upon closer inspection, you can see that apart from their size, they are otherwise identical. Touching the head one of these mushrooms causes all other mushrooms nearby to glow at the corresponding point. This property continues even when picked, and works over any distance."
Axehandle Hound,Magical Pet," This small dog has a long thin body, short stubby legs, and a head shaped in a way that looks almost as if it were the head of an axe. This creature only eats the handles of axes, but therwise this creature is just the same as a small dog."
Whipweed,Plant Weapon," A long sturdy grass that is remarkably thick, and grows in small dense patches. The plant grows to be about 5 feet long, and can be used as a whip, or as rope. Some rumors say that at night the plant will occasionally attack passers by."
Lantern Turnip,Magical Plant," A white hard tuberous vegetable. They naturally grow to be hollow, and various fey are known to carve faces into them. However, these vegetables hold a flammable gas in their hollow interior, and if they catch fire they explode in flames. All creatures in a 5 foot radius must make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw or take 1 fire damage when one of these plants explodes."
Wart Berry Bush,Magical Plant," A Small dark green bush that is covered very sparsely with lime green berries. These berries have a bumpy texture, and are very bitter flavor. When a creature eats on them gain 1 temporary hit-point, but must make a DC 10 Constitution save, or become poisoned for one hour. Some say that the berries can be used to make an unusual kind of candy."
Gold Web Grass,Magical Plant," A strange species of grass. The plant is mostly green, but has golden lines across its surface in the pattern of a spider’s web. Some people say that if you can gather enough of the grass you are able to spin it into golden thread."
Euphoric Bloodstone,Toxic Seed," The blood-stone is the hard seed of the Sangremaphora Vine. It resembles a stone but is made of a dark red, hard, wax-like substance with small black pit in the center. The stone is formed over the lifespan of the plant and the wax-like substance is created through the digestion of its victims blood. The Sangreamphora is a large bushlike plant with large leafy vines. The ends of the vines have a large pink bulbous flower with long protruding stamen. These stamen travel along the forest floor seeking out warm-blooded creatures. When the stamen finds a target, it latches on and begins to drain its blood. The stamen release a toxin that puts the target in a dreamlike state of mindless euphoria for several hours or days. If left uninterrupted for several days, the target may be completely drained of blood, or awaken in a weekend state several days later. When the flower has sufficiently consumed enough blood it dies, exploding with a loud pop and leaving behind the wax-like bloodstone that houses the seed. Animals (and people) are attracted by the smell of the wax which contains the same euphoric toxin used by the vine, acting as a drug. Animals lick or eat the wax, often eating the bloodstone seed at the center. After eating the seed, they usually fall ill and die, and a new Sangremamphora sprouts from the corpse several days later. The Bloodstone is prized as a powerful addictive narcotic, and often sought out by neighboring communities for either drug-use, religious ceremonies, or rights-of-passage. It is particularly dangerous however because, while in the euphoric state, users often accidentally ingest the bloodstone seed."
Battlebriar Suit,Clothing," Bits of Battlebriar's hide have been intricately sewn together to create homemade camouflage. Since it's been fashioned from natural hide, the vines and thorns make the suit uncomfortable to carry around. However, the hide's density does provide some padding to the wearer, granting a 13 armor class rating."
"So, what are we drinking tonight?",THIRSTY," Fermented drinks are so much more than something to sip or to chug to unwind at the end of a busy adventuring day. Each tells a story of the brewer, vintner, or distiller who carefully crafted it. In a fantasy setting, some of these may come with magical effects, akin to a potion, but others are simply magical to experience. So, let's write some ales, wines, and other spirits! The loot doesn't necessarily have to magical, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs—anything a PC might want to purchase for a long journey or pay a little extra to enjoy on premises at a pub. These should be mostly mechanics free."
Gnollblood Mead,Nonmagical mead," While the inventor of this recipe is said to have been human, anyone is welcome to make it- if they can survive the trial of getting the ingredients. True to its name, after the mead is sweetened with honey and boiled with a blend of spices, the maker stirs in just enough gnoll's blood to give the brew a salty, rusty undertone. This conveys no magical benefit, but it's still quite popular among the wealthy citizens of the local cities (the types who have never even seen a gnoll, let alone slayed one). Brewers within the city limits will pay handsomely for fresh gnoll carcasses to keep their blood supply in check."
Bragget,"Goblin ""wine"""," Made from fermented, often rotting cave mushrooms, bragget is the favored drink of any goblin who wants to quickly lose their inhibition. There's no real recipe to follow- simply throw a handful of fresh mushrooms into a vat of water, forget it for several months, rediscover the vat after a crew of adventurers break into your cave system, and drink it. Effects range from a gleeful, giddy state of inebriation to death from dysentery (or both)."
Cobbler's Cream,"Rotgut, Swill"," Gnomes who dwell along the forest's edge often send their young to forage for meals in dense, semi-cultivated plots filled with berries, brambles, succulent flowers and herbs of all varieties. Having not yet developed a callous thick enough to endure the thorns, prickles and stings, many young Gnomes often wear carved wooden shoes and heavy leather gaiters to protect themselves. When a young Gnome reaches maturity, however, they are expected to retire their shoes back to the cobbler, where the toes are stuffed full of harvested berries, leaves, mushrooms and whatever else comes to hand. The shoes are then hung from the rafters over a large vat, where steam, time, and the natural yeasts in the porous wood allow droplets of alcoholic liquid to seep through the shoe, and fall into the roiling mixture below. Mixed with rainwater, and served in (usually) cleaned wooden shoes, the resulting beverage is incredibly potent, with a flavor profile that ranges from incredibly profane to lavender, with notes of sweet sap. Gnomes who consume it often do so in celebratory contexts, and in small quantities. Most others experience temporary blindness and an intense hatred for Gnomes."
Blood Clot,Dwarven Sludge," This bizarre concoction is a favorite among Dwarves looking to make a dare. Thick and red, it contains a congealed glob of fermented goat milk about the size of a golf ball. An acquired taste, it is reminiscent of fortified wine with a strong hint of copper."
Demon's Piss,Dragonfruit Wine," Demon's Piss is created using fermented dragonfruit and a secret recipe of herbs and spices that varies from town to town. The general flavor is of dragonfruit but often has a backend of licorice, nutmeg, and/or lemon. It is loved more for its flavor than strength, it is only 12 proof."
Axegrinder Ale,Dwarvish ale," In the right light, this ale takes on a blood red hue. It gives off a strong scent like a floral meadow covered in dew and tastes slightly sour on the way down with a sweaty finish. Dwarves who consume it often become mildly belligerent and take offense the smallest slights. Most others who consume it experience a noticeable uptick in their spirits (except trolls, they just get angry)."
Bitterbeard Ale,Dwarvish ale," This translucent gold ale is topped with a clean white foam and tastes a little pungent and bitter with hints of citrus. Dwarves who consume it tend to brood over hated foes, especially ""the one that got away."" Non-dwarves who consume it typically experience a pleasant evening followed by a poor night's sleep."
Rockbiter Porter,Dwarvish stout, This dark muddy brown brew is nearly opaque. Its nose is reminiscent of a rich autumn feast and its flavor has notes of creamy roasted toffee and just a hint of mustiness. Dwarves who consume it are often overcome with great confidence in their own physical strength. Non-dwarves who consume it have trouble finishing even a single pint because it makes the stomach feel so full.
Nightsky Strongwine,Elvish wine," This deep purple wine is sweet and smooth, and often served after dinner at elvish feasts. In its preparation, the grapes are crushed under an open sky on a clear moonless night to achieve the greatest effects. Elves who consume it are often filled with nostalgia, but other drinkers become very sleepy."
Meadowlark,Human wheat beer," In a world full of 750,000-proof Elven cordials and Dwarven stouts so thick you'd think they were bottled mud, sometimes you just need a good beer. Mild, refreshing, and flavorful, Meadowlark is a beer by humans, for humans, which means that just about every halfling from here to the Drypeak Mountains is drinking it. The noble think it crude, the elves think it unimaginative, the dwarves find it cowardly, but the farmers who drop themselves down at a tavern table at the end of the day wouldn't have anything else."
Frostbomb,Pale ale," The life's work of a dragonborn brewmaster. Frostbomb is somewhat disconcerting, for a couple of reasons. One, it's blue. For those who prefer not to consume things that are the color of their cousin Clyde that one time he tried to swallow a carrot whole, that might be a bit of a turn-off. Two, it is absolutely frigid. The steel bottles that it's shipped in are often coated in a thick rime of frost that must be hacked off before serving, and the cold magic in the brew must be allowed to sit for at least four minutes before it's warm enough to not be painful going down. All that being said, there isn't a traveler alive who doesn't hope to stumble upon a bottle under the counter in a desert bar."
Steve's Mead,Mead," This bottle of mead might have had a label, once, but it appears to have been torn off. In its place, painted directly on the bottle, are the words ""STEVE'S MEAD"" in blocky, crude letters. Clearly, Steve is not around to claim his mead, but in his absence the cork appears to be permanently and irrevocably stuck in the mouth of the bottle."
Self-important Prick,Brown ale," The ale inside this bottle isn't terribly unusual, aside from being harsh and bitter. The true draw is the printing on the bottle, which reads ""Self-Important Prick"" in white letters. Under the lettering is a rendition of a face--a rendition that changes to reflect whoever the drinker dislikes the most at that particular time. There are allegations that drinking the ale results in heightened animosity toward the depicted person, but it might just be a result of reminding them that that person exists in the first place."
Fermented Femininity,Semi-magical Wine," A bright pink, cool wine that tastes like a perfect, ripe, sugared grape. That is, it tastes like that if you're a woman. For men who drink though, it not only tastes like roadkill, but goes down like tar. Rumor is that the grapes used for the wine come from a vineyard that was cursed by a spiteful nature spirit (or goddess, depending on how dramatic the storyteller is) when she found out that the man she pined for was gay. She cursed the man and his lands so that anything he grew would only be able to please women."
Sugar Rush Rum,Magical Rum," The Halflings are often unfairly compared to children, but when it comes to their choice of drink, the comparison isn't totally wrong. Sugar Rush Rum is one of the better examples of that. It's a golden drink that somehow produces sky blue foam and tastes more like candy than alcohol. In fact, it's common practice in some areas to put sprinkles in the brew. There are reasons to drink the stuff other than a sweet tooth though. The rum isn't called Sugar Rush for nothing, as it triggers a mystic rush of energy after drinking it, making the imbiber faster and increasing their reflexes, but making it much harder to focus on anything for more than a few seconds. More than one foolish leader has tried to increase his army's fighting ability with the drink, and instead ended up with half of his troops simply wandering away before a fight could even begin."
King's Seal,Nonmagical Drink," Named so due to the molten wax used to make it, mixed with wine, cloves and other flavour-enhancing components, this is favoured as a cool, refreshing beverage for lesser Fire Elementals when it gets so hot even they feel the need to cool off a bit, and very popular with fire Genasi and tieflings, who like to show off how much heat they can handle, the constipation and horrible hangovers be damned."
"Really, Really, Really Black Rum",Barely-Magical alchohol," A scam beverage used by barkeeps in the seedy parts of major cosmopolitan cities, it is advertised as everything from the blood of demons, to the brew of shadowfell denizens, etc. In reality its just refined 170 proof liquor and capsaicin extract for burn, presdigitated by the barkeep to look black as the night sky. ""Sure, it's pricey, but if you can handle it, you can add your name to the wall of fame!!!"""
Boulderhead Bock,Magical lager," Malty lager with thick and creamy froth. Resistance to bludgeoning, cannot be critically hit. Duration: 1 hour."
Whore's Breakfast,Magical mixer, Shot of pungent clear liquid dropped in any mug of ale. Counteracts one level of exhaustion.
Bramble-Sick Brandy,A mistake," Made from thornfruit, drank mostly by Bugbears. Advantage on tracking with smell and hearing for three hours, then Disadvantage for one hour due to sickness."
Rusty Cutlass,Hallucinogenic drink," Made with poisonous frogs and honey. The honey counteracts the poison, but leaves the light hallucinogenic nature. The frog is often left in the bottom to be eaten as the finishing blast of effect. Advantage against poison, automatic fail against illusions. Duration: 3 hours."
The Drunken Tosser,Dwarven engineering," When drunk, all attacks do an additional 1d6 damage in drunken fervor until hit. On hit, forced use of reaction to projectile vomit at creature who hit you. Vomit does additional 1d10 acid damage. Auto hit if in melee range, range is twenty feet, +2 to hit vs. AC. A miss leaves the five foot square covered in acid that effects any who enter. Lasts d20/2 rounds."
Hand Glob,Magical spirit," This spirit was inspired by a mage renowned for his Hand spells, and is magically fermented to create a special magical effect. While it looks and acts like normal liquor, if you pour some out onto your hand, it won't actually touch your hand but will become a glob that floats above your hand. You can toss it back and forth between your hands, and even hand or toss the glob to another person, which as you can imagine leads to all sorts of bar games and hijinks."
Fire Eye Brew,Spirit," Brewed by gnomes using various fungi, this spirit gives the imbiber eyes that glow orange. A couple minutes after drinking a shot, the imbibers eyes start glowing, and the imbiber gains Darkvision for 10 minutes or so. But, while it helps those normally without darkvision navigate the Underdark, the glow stands out as a bright beacon to it's denizens."
Golden Touch,Nonmagical Cider," An almost jet black liquid, this alcohol looks and smells terrible. Made from a strange variety of black berries which grow at the bottom of swamps and bogs, many compare the smell and look to those of something long dead. When imbibed by an undead it tastes very sweet and seems to build till a refreshing aftertaste after a few moments. This has made it a heavy favorite for vampires and the like. Living creatures who taste it describe it as oddly sour but still delicious. Sailors often create this wonderful cider by taking leftover bits of fruit, such as cores and peels, and shoving them into the husk of a peltur fruit to be left out in the sun for several days. Once all the bits and pieces are removed, all that is left is a shiny yellow liquid that has a variety of fruity tastes. One benefit of this drink, other than the inebriation, is that it helps sailor’s combat scurvy. Some starving sailors have compared the taste to the kiss of a lover and common folklore claims that it can help revitalize a man on an empty stomach."
Mudwiser,Orcish ale," Brewed in large batches with low quality control standards, other races denounce this popular brand as swill. A perennial favorite in the worst dives and at the gladiator pits with a taste reminiscent of the mudbogs where it was first created. Orcs love it. Drinking boisterously in large quantities, they attribute all their best decisions to its influence."
Thadwick Snidwak’s Golden Libation,Magical mead," This sweet, slightly metallic drink goes down smooth and tastes like a million gold. The proprietary recipe is a closely guarded secret of the mad wizard. Rumor has it the drink contains actual gold and will bring great riches to any who partake. But Snidwak was a vindictive bugger who specially brewed this drink to wreak his revenge on the party guests who snubbed him. Most of them still wander his Tower of Sullitude, the now-cool gold shining brightly in the holes burned through their flesh by the molten metal."
Tekillya,Hard liquor," Popular among the lizardfolk, this heavy-hitting spirit probably won’t actually kill you. Brewed from fermented cactus and rumbleweed, the secret ingredient is the venom of the tiny Krillworm. Careful, those will kill ya. In traditional lizardfolk taverns, the drink is still served with a random number of live krillworms in the mug."
Smoking Dreamkiller,Mixed drink," Not for the fainthearted. This drink packs a wallop. The various ingredients remain separated in layers. The first is harsh and bitter, enticing the drinker to stare into a half-empty mug pondering what might have been. When the second layer is exposed to the atmosphere, it reacts with the air to create the signature smoky mist in the cup, which drinkers swear shows them visions of a heroic destiny about to unfold. The third layer fortifies a man’s spirit to “stand up and do something with your life!” The fourth and final layer goes down in a manly rush, usually accompanied by a belch and slamming the empty mug, still smoking, onto the bar and leaping into action to grab life by the throat. The sudden movement triggers the layers to mix in the drinker’s stomach, almost universally resulting in immediate unconsciousness and a deep, dreamless sleep. The drinker awakes 2d10 hours later, well-rested, forgetting the troubles of the previous night and ready to tackle the humdrum life of feudal servitude."
Ogre Punch,"Thick, sludgy, ale?"," No one is really sure what this stuff is, but it's brewed by Ogres, and can sometimes be found on them while looting their corpses. It's has a consistency of syrup, and smells like an Ass's back end, but is one of the strongest brews you will ever find. It's strong enough for Ogre's, which means it's way too strong for anyone else. Just a sip of this stuff is enough to knock even a dwarf on her read end. Although supposedly it is favored by Dragons, due to it's potency."
Tears of Regret,Cursed Magical Ale," The ale is highly sought by unscrupulous bar owners, who then secretly replace a competitors ale with it. It makes the imbiber sad and regretful, as they wallow in the memories of lost loves, family, friends, and opportunities. Even more so than they usually regret those things. Meanwhile, the unscrupulous bar owner makes sure his joint is jumping and happy, with everyone having a good time, and making sure that the patrons at the now sad, depressing bar hear where the fun is happening."
Blauzeeg Brew,Human ale," The in-house beer of the Blauzeeg Inn and Tavern, this brew can most readily be obtained on draft in the village of Gelbfar, where it is made. Occasional casks and kegs are sold to barge crews or caravans as an export good of sorts, though the brewing operation is small as such things go. Your basic inoffensive brown ale with a slightly nutty finish."
Vackulderbeck,cheap gin," With a not unearned reputation for turpentine-like flavor, Vackulderbeck is popular largely with alcoholics too far gone to have functioning tastebuds."
Deep Grog,Blackest Tot," The darkest of naval rum taken from sunken sips mixed with saltwater taken from the pelagic depths of the Elemental Plane of Water. Black and cold, with a syrupy mouth feel. Tastes of brine and molasses with a distinct bitterness. Reserved for first time travelers to The City of Glass, and served as a shot with a still beating fish heart. Also disparagingly known as Aboleth's Piss."
Hyperborean Cider,Bottled Sunshine," Fermented with juice made from apples collected from the Celestial Plane. Gloriously, radiantly golden, no head, ever, and never sours. Sweet and warm, with hints of clove, cinnamon, and sunrises. You can still get a hangover, don’t believe that myth, and there are few things in the multiverse worse than being hungover on the Celestial Plane. Everyone is singing and everything IS SO VERY BRIGHT."
Old Polder Genever Gin,Spirit's Spirits," The recipe for this liquor was pulled from the ruins of the necropolis of Polder. Clear or just faintly brown, sweet with juniper and malt. More like a whiskey than a gin. Purportedly aged in oak barrels with a single golden coin taken from the dead city, luck be damned. Said to be able to distract hungry dead by offering shots. Popular gift on Spirt's Eve."
Airak,Djinn and Juice," Distilled on the Elemental Plane of Air by the Djinn in a process that uses no machinery, but by captive air elementals controlling the temperatures and pressures while the liquid free floats in the air. Clear when poured but will louche when exposed to normal air pressure. Tastes of licorice, anise, and a warm breeze with a slight bitter aftertaste. Makes you lightheaded, maybe literally. Best mixed."
Neverwinter Nightmare,Non-magical spirit," This cheap alcohol is made from fermented chestnuts, which grow plenty in and around Neverwinter. A particularly strong variety is made by a gang of Neverwinter urchins, who hawk their ware on the streets. Some of the more, ah, entrepreneurial urchins will pick your pocket while you try and haggle for a lower price. It's called a nightmare because there are multiple species of chestnuts, and one of those is not suitable for fermentation. If used anyhow, the resulting spirit will give the drinker a troubled and fitful sleep with vivid nightmares."
Elven Feather Wine,Light Elven wine," This light elven wine is said to be made by straining liquid from gooseberries through a special filter made of eagle's feathers and then fermented in casks hanging from tree branches. Popular with elves because of it's light airiness, it will actually give any who drink a slight increase to their dexterity and movement speed for approximately an hour."
Jester Juice,Mixed Drink," Sold Exclusively at The Jester's Johnson tavern, this golden beverage smells indistinguishable from a Meadowlark human draft beer. Unfortunately, it tastes like straight unicorn piss. Often purchased as a practical joke on stag nights and 18th birthdays. Has an interesting side-effect that drastically increases labido."
Liar's Brew,Mixed Drink," An exclusive brew at The Liar's Den tavern, This mysterious, lavender drink is advertised to contain numerous special ingredients, though it tastes suspiciously like Gin and Juice. The effects hit hard and fast. They call it the Liar's Brew because those under its effects tend to spill more secrets than they mean to."
Gray Sludge,"Magical Alcoholic ""Drink"""," Gray Sludge is an orcish drink that smells, looks, and tastes foul. No sane man would drink this for pleasure. Shamans make it by fermenting a mixture of miscellaneous organic material, then enchanting it. It is surprisingly filling, if you can force it down. In addition to intoxication, it increases the endurance and strength of the drinker."
Kevinsbane,Magical strong spirit," This drink is mostly clear, with a slight bluish tint. It is distilled by a legendarily incompetent wizard, and ensures the drinker will have a very... interesting night. It makes one recklessly confident and greatly impairs judgement, even more than normal alcohol. However, it also gives courage, and ensures that everything you do will either succeed amazingly or fail horribly."
Pissin' Goblin,"Ale, Swill"," A popular yet terrible ale enjoyed for the simple fact it gets you drunk. With a cloudy blonde colour and taste reminiscent of grass, pine and pepper. Those who drink large quantities are said to develop incontinence and bouts of kleptomania, though that might just be the alcohol."
Go Juice,Spirit," A spirit much like vodka brewed from potatoes and a mysterious chile pepper grown in the depths of an insane asylum . The drink is known for its use as a way to pump and excite before a battle, with many drinkers reportedly being run through with a sword and still fight till their buzz wears off. It is also known for the heat and spicy of its flavour. The drink comes in many irregular bottles and containers, but they always have ""GO JUICE"" written in an almost illegible scrawl."
Aethernol,Magic Spirit," Refined from a combination of ectoplasm and gelatinous cube remains, this extremely potent liquor has optical properties identical to air. Since pouring a glass of it without spilling is functionally impossible, Aethernol can only be purchased by the bottle. It conveys a limited ability to see into the future, by exactly as much as the intoxication affects your reaction time."
Winter's Tooth,Magical Shot," A light, minty blue shot that stings going down. Instead of a burning sensation, the drinker's throat feels frozen and icy. Great for hot days. Most individuals find their tongue and throat numb for ten to twenty minutes immediately afterward."
Bawler's Brew,Magical Lager," Most of those who order this drink do so by accident. Most mishear the name and believe it will make them more tenacious in battle and savage in the ring. However, they find that the watery drink they are handed will have them filled with heartache and breaking down into tears halfway through their fight."
The Baconater,Magical Ale," Order by large groups of friends or acquaintances, those drinking the Baconater have drunken arguments about who knows people who have met the famous hero ""Kevinior Baconicus"" and how many people they know ""who know a guy"" that have fought alongside him."
Ko-brandy,Kobold Spirit," Mostly water. Found in every kobold encampment, this drink is ""brewed"" in a boiling pot filled with twigs and leaves. A few drops of potent poison from the Catstalk Viper are added and left sit for at least a year to break it down into an ""alcohol-like"" substance. It is rarely drunk except by the leaders of kobold camps on special holidays and political meetings. An ""unripe"" batch has a high chance of killing any non-kobold who imbibes it, and does not get them drunk in any way. A kobold who drinks of the Ko-Brandy is much more persuasive, and in rare cases aggressive."
Ginger Ale,Nonmagical(?) Ale," Just a normal ginger beer. You've always had red hair, right?"
Bitterthorn Dry,Absinthe," This dark green spirit is distilled from the needles of the bitterthorn pine, which are chewed as a stimulant in the far North. Once distilled into a spirit, it has a sharp, acidic taste with notes of evergreen, and has plenty of kick for a cold winter night."
Bezoar Red,Magical Wine," This fantastically expensive wine is fermented with a bezoar in every single bottle. This makes it a reliable anti-toxin as well as giving the drink a rich, earthy taste, making it popular with paranoid nobles and cautious rulers. Mechanics wise, it functions as an anti-toxin vial from the Adventuring Gear, as once imbibed, it gives Advantage on saving throws against poison for one hour. A nice treasure for your players- lots of gold if sold to a noble, or a useful resource if needed."
"Sanninion (lit. ""Diamondfire"")",Grey Elven Liquor," A sharp, clear liquor distilled from hardy, fermented roots found around grey elven citadels. Finer distilleries are known to remove almost all of the burn from the liquor, allowing it to go down like water, while lesser distilleries produce a product with an acrid taste sure to make the drinker cough and sputter."
Cavruniel (lit. Thornwine),Grey Elven Liquor," While most elven cultures are renowned for their wine production, the elves of the north have neither the tools nor resources necessary to construct functioning, profitable vineyards. The closest they offer to wine is Cavruniel, a strong, transparent liquor that offers a blossoming juniper taste upon the palette, said to be quite pleasant to those who have grown accustomed to it."
Grog Spawn,Absolutely Vile," A drink made by Bullywugs. Looks like mud, smells like mud, tastes like... Well, mud, with a hint of grain alcohol. But don't you dare refuse the Bullywug monarchs offer of a taste of their own personal-brewed Grog Spawn."
Old Nothic Knuckle,Old Ale Fortified With Nothic Fingers," This old ale came into existence on a bit of a dare, and is usually consumed on one as well. A crew of travelling sellswords brought the body of a Nothic into a tavern after a typical day of looting a wizard's crumbling tower. One of them chopped the Nothic's hand up into several even parts and dared his friends to drink their ales after he had dropped the bloody fingers in each mug. There was enough necrotic energy left in the monster's blood to give them all a terrifying hallucinatory experience that has become legend. These days the ale is typically fortified and rarely has a simple scrap of a Nothic in it as Nothic blood is widely assumed to be too dangerous for consumption. Old Nothic Knuckle is stored and displayed in clear glass to show off the fingers inside, and is usually imbibed as shots taken on a dare. They say the only way to tell you've had a true Old Nothic Knuckle is when you start screaming at nothing. 11% ABV"
Doppelganger Dopplebock,Lager," This strong beer looks, smells and tastes like a more popular and well known lager. A jealous brewer from Waterdeep couldn't fathom his beer being outsold by a new and talented young brewer in town, so he hired a Tiefling thief to steal the recipe. Unfortunately, the thief got away with a much earlier version of this now perfected and much-loved recipe. There's something a little off when observing the dark brown and red-highlighted color of this brew, but there's a little something off of the price too. 9% ABV"
Dragon's Horde,Alchemical Lambic," A lustrous, golden body beneath a luxurious white foam are enough to draw most in for this adventurous beer. What's more, through clever alchemy, the carbonation that rises from the bottom of the glass twinkles in brilliant reds, greens, and blues as the flavor shifts from berries to stone fruit to apples and back again."
Hob-Nobber,Hobgoblin Spirit," Distilled within a natural basin within the cold stone of Weatherwill cave, this murky spirit is a classic among young hobgoblins. Slightly chartreuse, it tastes faintly of lemons and ice until it reaches the belly. POW! A sucker-punch right in the abdomen. Combined with the sweet aftertaste, it's a perfect blend of pain and pleasure."
What prizes do these bilge rats carry?,"The tattered map leads you across the barren island to a lone palm, where a bit of flotsam nearly obscures a weatherbeaten chest..."," Last time, we found ourselves exploring some seedy undersides, which got me thinking about pirates, ships, and nautical ephemera. Today, let's write about things you might pillage from a galleon, or uncover while looting a sea baron's stronghold. Spoils await! The loot doesn't necessarily have to magical, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs—anything a PC might want to pick it up carry or purchase as an accessory to their equipment or wardrobe. These should be mostly mechanics free. I'll post a few examples."
Tiny Crystal Ship in a Bottle,Misc (or is it?), A tiny sailing ship made of fine crystal inside a bottle with no clear way it got in there. It shimmers in the sunlight and radiates mysterious magic.
Roguish Tricorn Hat,Mundane Hat, What idiot stores nothing but a hat in a locked treasure chest?
Captains Plaque,Decoration, A well made paperweight cast from brass. It has a tiny illusion spell that suspends an image of the ship it was found on above it.
Exquisite China Tea Set,Misc, A delicate china tea set painted in motifs of far away lands. It's well wrapped in padded cloth and comes with its own matching box.
Ship's Cat,Animal, An unlikely survivor of the wreck.
Ship's Cat,Boat," A small ship's catboat washed up alongside the chest. The sail is in tatters, but the hull looks serviceable."
Ship's Cat,Weapon, A damaged catapult washed up on shore. It looks repairable.
Ship's Cat,Misc," The ships figurehead, washed up on shore. It's finely carved in the shape of a roaring lion head and would make an excellent decoration somewhere."
Ship's Cat,NPC, You find a very bedraggled Rakshasa lying on the beach. He was first mate on the sunken ship and knows valuable information about its cargo.
Ship's Cat,Book," A magical tome, geared toward Land Lubbers, which can identify the category, characteristics, and name of any ship within range."
Ship Cat's,Magical shipping vendor," If you need a cat shipped anywhere, you should see Vugmor in the market. He'll make sure that your cat gets where it's going. Probably in one piece. Most of the time."
Ship's Cat,Companion, Large tiger that was born at sea. Refuses to set foot on land. If you gain his trust he's loyal to the end.
Ship Cats,Mundane book, A journal one captain apparently wrote about fictionalized romances of the ship's cat and what he imagined the cat got up to on shore leave.
Catship,Condiment," A tomato-based sauce to put on food. Necessary for any maritime travel, to tolerate the cook's food."
Ship's Cat,Tool, A ship's lightly enchanted wildcat winch. This device is very useful for hauling chain or working block and tackle.
Ship Scat,Jetsam, It's just a bit of junk tossed overboard at some point during a voyage. This particular piece may have come from the ship's head.
Ship's Cats Hip,Bones," A perfectly cleaned, starch white cat pelvis left behind after the ship was lost in a doldrums. The crew was forced to eat the cat, but kept this pelvic girdle as a reminder of her sacrifice."
Stirgemeat's Sextant,Magical Navigational Tool," At first sight, it's unclear what the sextant is meant to be. Crafted from tarnished brass, badly tanned leather, crudely shaped driftwood and milky glass, it's a tool only a seasoned mariner could appreciate, much less love. And yet, over the years various sailors have added their own touches - a bundle of pigeon feathers tied with sinew to a thumbscrew, a rough etching of a stylized Kraken, an extra mirror. Its last owner (a burly gnomish privateer, the eponymous Stirgemeat) claimed to have enchanted it with the power to sight in on the Maiden's star even during the brightest day or stormiest night."
Mr. Mizzen's Mate's Candle,Minor Magical Item," Sold as part of the otherwise wildly successful 'Mr. Mizzen!' line of sailor's tools, the Mate's Candle was designed to serve as a replacement timepiece and light source for sailors that served the night's watch. If lit at dusk, the thin candles would burn until the next dawn, changing colors at the top of every hour as they did so. Unfortunately, the engineers at Mr. Mizzen didn't take the typical sailor's superstitious nature into account, and the candles failed to sell well, especially after stories of 'demon ships' bathed in red, orange and green lights began to circulate. A second batch of Mate's Candle was sold, marketed with 'sailor friendly' shades of white, yellow and gold, but the damage had been done. Still, many of the candles have been repurposed by cults looking for mood lighting, watchmen in coastal cities, and thrifty students."
Drowned Shot,Ammunition," The Slipscrew Rigs off the southern coast have been rumored to be the haunt of (in no particular order) Mergnomes, Mechoctopi, Mutamphibians, and/or Metanthopods, depending on what port you're hailing from, and how gullible you look. Regardless, most agree that the rigs' deep shale oil - shipped all along the coast in tight, cotton-wrapped bamboo casks to whoever can afford it - is some of the best on the market. Less well known is a byproduct of the drilling, flammable, dense stone known by mariners as Drowned Chull. When dried, it can be chipped, carved and shaped into pellets suitable for small cannon or flintlock longarms. While less durable than iron or lead shot, drowned shot has the advantage of being innately flammable, and has been used (with mixed effectiveness) to set sails, unwashed hair and powder stores alight."
Mr. Mizzen's Meticulous Mainsail,Minor Magical Item," Cut and sewn from blessed canvas, this sail repels water, dust, grime and dirt for up to (a guaranteed!) two years before the blessing fades, and the cloth becomes mundane (if perfectly serviceable). Often sold as part of a package, each sail is shipped in one of five set sizes, but can be custom altered for a nominal fee."
Orkish Cutlass,Mundane weapon," A thin, jagged sword favored by the orc reavers who terrorize the fishermen and traders of the northern coasts. Most orkish cutlasses don't last long, as the jagged edges and constant exposure to sea-spray cause the steel to rust. As such, many orc reavers carry two or three on raids."
Lucky Coin of Captain Cray,Possibly wondrous item," The legendary pirate Captain Cray was known for flipping a large gold coin to decide the fate of his captives. One side of the coin is shiny and reflective and the other dark and tarnished and black. If the shiny side came up, you got a piece of steel across your throat. If the dark side came up, you got some stones tied to your feet and were given to the sea. Rumors tell that the coin aided Captain Cray with his uncanny nose for finding fantastic treasure hoards, but no one is certain how that worked..."
The Captain's 'Special' Rum Cocktail,Booze," A loose paper label on the glass flask marks this as the ""Captain's 'Special' Rum Cocktail'. It smells and tastes like a mix of Rum, ginger and honey. Exactly what makes it special, is not clear."
Wooden Puzzle Box,Storage/Magical Item," This small box is the size of two fists, and covered with numerous tiny drawers. Only two of the drawers will open, but by manipulating those two drawers and sliding other cleverly hidden sections of wood, eventually you may figure out how to open all the drawers. But it may take some time. Each drawer holds it's own tiny treasure (rings, tiny notes, a gem, a living butterfly etc). The box cannot be damaged or forced in any way."
Ivory Mermaids,Trinket," A selection of ivory mermaids, crudely carved. Well, except for certain 'features' which have been carved with lavish detail."
Pirate Head Clay Pipe,Utensil," A very fine clay pipe, the bowl formed into the shape of a bearded man with a scarred face. The face is so detailed, you can even make out the arrow shaped earring - the mark of a well-known pirate gang."
Drowned Maiden Scrimshaw,Trinket," This large whale's tooth is finely carved, appearing to depict a young woman drowning at sea. Beneath is the name 'Celia' and a few badly worn sentences that might explain her fate, but the words are very hard to read."
Wooden Mug,Utensil," This is an ordinary wooden mug. Except for the hidden compartment at the bottom, which can be triggered by pressing part of the handle while squeezing the sides. Why would they put a hidden compartment inside the cup?"
The Watchman's Friend,Jewellery," The metal torc looks rather severe, with several upward-facing spikes. It would be very difficult to nod off when wearing such a serious piece of jewellery."
Miskin's Stash,?," A tube of bamboo has been carefully sealed at both ends with wax. Scratched into the side are the words 'Miskin's Stash'. (The tube contains a pair of clean, dry socks and underwear)."
Wooden Lion Mask,Trinket, This fierce looking tribal mask appears to be an exotic depiction of a lion with oversized teeth.
Jade Turtle,Trinket, This deep green jade has been carved into the shape of a leatherback turtle. The carving is good quality so it might have value.
Pearl Marbles,Trinket," A bag of milky white marbles with long swirls of pale pinks, reds, blues, greens, and purples decorating them. Though not made from real pearls, they reflect light in a vaguely enchanting manner. On the seas, sailors would trade marbles and similar trinkets as a form of currency, getting favors from one another or what not. Some captains even paid their mean in marbles and bead, though this often did not go over well once on land."
Jelly Roger's Marmelade,Food," Old jars containing orange and red fruit preserves. A rough and jolly swashbuckler is imprinted on the lid. Along the side is written ""To prevent scurvy on the high seas!"""
Seastone Chalice,Magic Item," This two-handled drinking cup is wrought from some sort of pale blue-green material and inlaid with gold. The outside is rimed with salt crystals which regenerate when brushed away, but these don't seem to affect the chalice itself. When water is placed into the cup, it is instantly rendered salty and undrinkable. In addition, the cup produces deafening sounds of surf until it is emptied. Non-water beverages, such as alcohol, milk, juice, etc. are unaffected."
Dread Corsair's Beard-Braids,Magical item," These bits of colored string are meant for use in braiding hair, usually of a beard, mustache, or ponytail. When used in this manner, they remain inert until the command word is spoken, usually ""AVAST!"" or something suitably piratey. Under these circumstances, the ends of the strings smolder and catch fire, creating a hellish glow over the wearer's face."
Affinity coin,Magical coin," This coin has an affinity for other coins, and will glow brighter and brighter as it gets closer to them. Useful for looking for hidden booty on a captured ship, or where someone might be hiding coins upon their person."
Ol' Carbunkle.,Magical Figurehead," An old ship's figurehead, carved from white wood and splintered at the base. It depicts an aged man leaning forward and cupping an ear, as if listening intently for threats. An old smuggler's tale is that if you find and attach Ol' Carbunkle to your ship, you'll never be bothered by pesky lawsmen as you slink in or out of port. Given that Ol' Carbunkle's is currently mounted above the door to the Naval Guardsman's Barracks, take the story with a pinch of salt."
Sahuagin Spear,any, These spears often drift ashore after the merlings and their ancient enemies have gotten good and riled enough to have a battle. Savvy grifters can re-sell them to lubbers as magical treasures of the sea.
Gold-eater's Shell,Tiny Beast," This small, ornate shell fits in the palm of your hand. The shell itself appears to be made of silver, with what appears to be streaks of various precious minerals streaking through it. At first glance, it appears to be empty and would likely fetch some decent coin. Inside the shell however, lies a very small hermit crab with very expensive tastes. When the crab feels safe, it will set off to find it's favourite meal: gold (coins or otherwise). The shell shifts steadily from silver to gold over time as it gorges itself on more riches."
Seahorse statuette,Tiny Beast/Tiny Statue," This small seahorse figurine appears to be made of solid gold, with brilliant sapphires for eyes. When removed from the water for extended periods of time, the gold begins to soften and liquefy as though melting off of the statuette. If the statuette is not returned to the water in time, the polished golden skin and sapphire eyes fade, leaving a normal (and live) seahorse in its place. Once returned to the water, the seahorse slowly crystallizes back to its statuette state but will rapidly try to escape its captors before it does so."
Dwarven Mastbreaker,Magical item of sabotage," Resembling a collar for giant animals, this particularly mischievous item is comprised of two large halves, hinged in the middle. It is masterfully sculpted out of gold and decorated with several Dwarven runes. When clasped around the mast of a ship, the runes glow orange and a soft humming sound can barely be heard as the device slowly spins around the outside of the mast. After about an hour, the device will have cut through any mast, and the mast will fall, possibly on the ship itself. Perfect for sabotage!"
The Compass of Captain Bloodbeard,Ornate compass crafted from Obsidian, A small item but still large for a compass it is wrapped in a box made from Obsidian. Minor details adorn the outside of this volcanic glass and make it very visually appealing. There are rumours that it can lead to great treasure but it only seems to function as a normal compass.
Treasure of the Lost Deep,Vast wealth with scattered magical items," Ships sink all across the ocean, those carrying treasure are often scavenged with the help of mages but no treasure is ever found. Word around the ports is that it is gathered by some unknown entity who lives beneath the waves, if this is true the treasure horde would be vast enough to satisfy any dragon no matter how greedy."
The Forgotten Map,Sea Chart," Shows a detailed map of the current area, with certain phrases it can expand to a larger area. The map shows all lakes, rivers and any other methods with which a boat could feasibly cross into land."
The Sail of Procan,A sail as light as air and as soft as silk," The sail is done up with the symbols of the god Procan, a coral trident hovering over a cresting wave. It can fit any ship and will always ensure a safe voyage upon the oceans so long as an offering is made to Procan regularly during the voyage. Some say it always keeps the wind to your backs."
TriHorn Hat,Magical Hat," This Tricorn hat fits snugly onto it's wearer's head, and will stay on, despite wind, rain, strong tugging, or any other physical method attempted to remove it. The wearer can remove it anytime they want though. On command, the hat will sprout three horns, one on each corner, which the wearer can use for a goring attack, or due to the sharpness of the points, as a slashing attack. Standard non-proficiency penalties apply, but most users hide it's special power to use in a surprise attack sort of situation, thus mitigating the penalties with a surprise bonus."
TriBlade Hat,Clockwork hat," This Tricorn hat, made out of gears, springs and cogs, is heavier than your normal Tricorn hat, and has a thick leather strap that fastens around the wearers chin. The hat consists of two parts, a skullcap rests snuggly on the wearers head, while the bulk of the hat is attached to the skullcap. Upon command, a blade folds out from each of the corners of the hat, and the hat starts rotating around the skullcap, lifting the wearer aloft, so the user can slowly fly, changing direction/altitude by head movements. The hat uses oil as fuel, and can fly for about 10 minutes before running out of fuel."
Portable Cannon,Magical Item," It looks like any normal flintlock pistol, but instead of firing a small bullet, it fires a full sized cannonball."
Tentacle Pendant,Jewelry, A copper pendant which resembles the tentacles of an octopus. When submerged under the salty water of the ocean the tentacles spread apart and reveal a beautiful turquoise gem.
Spiked Hilt Cutlass,Weapon," A pirates cutlass with a handle larger than most, clearly used by something with bigger hands than a human. The hilt encases the hand with a crude shield with three barbed spikes, resembling tiny harpoons, sticking outwards."
Shivered Timber,Magical Item, This shard of wood from a ship's mast is tipped with frost. It enhances cold spells cast using it as a wand.
Cheater's Dice,Mundane Item, This small bag is filled with many-sided dice. Most of them are weighted to bring up high rolls frequently.
Trusted Lantern,Minor Magical Item," This lantern continues to burn while under water. Its light is not impeded by water, whether it be rain or sea."
"""Specialty"" Cards",Mundane Item," These cards feature intricate and often very sexually explicit drawings to indicate suit and number. They have women, men, elves, kobolds.... Hey man, don't judge."
Mr. Bones,NPC," Cursed with immortality and unabatable greed Mr.Bones locked himself with the treasure when the ship was sinking. Now, free at last and armed with 10,000 gp and a keen entrepreneurial mind, Mr. Bones is off to start his mercantile empire, but he will never forget the kindness the party has done him by opening the chest."
Flux Capacitor,Technology, Looks like nothing more than a cylinder with some pretty lights. A cheap bauble
Rod of Winds Seas,Magic Item, What at first looks like a piece of the mystical Rod of Winds reveals itself to be a crude replica made of flotsam by clumsy triton hands. Some tritons will pay a hefty sum for the piece. Most will just laugh in the party’s face
C&D,Mundane item, A letter from the local guard captain asking the pirate captain to cease and desist
Empty Chest,Mundane item, The chest is empty but is completely dry inside and proves to be completely water-tight
Pineapple Express,Mundane Item, A green leafy substance fills the chest. You can make out the words “Pineapple Express” embossed on the lid of the chest
Skull of Gravy Jones,Magic Item, Inside is the skull of the legendary ship’s cook Gravy Jones. It is said adding the skull to any tub of gravy will make it “the best gravy in the seven seas”
666 Gold Pieces,Mundane item, It’s just a number. You should be fine…
Bag of Winds,Magic Item, A leather satchel which can be opened to produce a directed gust of wind. Said to be how the Dread Pirate Bartholomew Jafferjabs could achieve such speed when he preyed upon merchant ships in the doldrums
Conch of Hearing,Wondrous item (shell)," Many legends speak of the Conch of Hearing, buried deep in the ocean floor. Other than the slight purple shimmer on the creamy surface of the shell, it appears as an ordinary shell. However, at a command word, it is said that one can hear through far distances if the conch is put to one's ear. There is nothing that one cannot hear with the Conch of Hearing."
Galdur's Globe of Geodesy,Tool," This metal globe appears at first glance to be nothing more than an apprentice cartographer's failed attempt, full of glaring inaccuracies. But once installed in a ship's helm, one need only envision a place and the globe rotates to highlight the shortest naval route route there, or as close to the location as the ship can sail. It also displays accurate oversea distances along the route, particularly useful for crews in poorly charted waters or with limited rations and supplies."
First Mate's Mug,Misc," This medium ceramic mug is an odd, almost organic looking shape, ostensibly fragile and unstable. Upon closer examination, the mug seems seems nigh indestructible, and when filled with liquid, stays perfectly upright on any surface, although it will move around."
What sorts of reading material do we find?,"The rusty hinges that bind the book creak in protest as you open the cover. The yellowing paper is ancient and frail in your hands. The ink has faded to brown, but the words are still legible..."," I use books and scrolls to give pieces of lore about the world to my players. They are also a great way to throw in a healthy dose of jokes and humor without making cartoonish NPCs. Scrolls don't necessarily have to contain a stored spell, they are just single-page documents (of variable length) written on rolled parchment. So, let's write some books and scrolls! The loot doesn't necessarily have to magical, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs—anything a PC might want to pick it up carry or purchase to read now or later. These should be mostly mechanics free. If you are experiencing writer's block, roll on these books tables to generate a topic. I'll post a few examples."
The Argentine Manual Of Arms For Noble Gentlemen,A Fencing Manual," A handsome volume, bound in decorated leather, with an inlaid picture of two men in court dress duelling with thin rapiers. The book details a complete fencing style specifically for court duels. It is lavishly decorated with beautiful illustrations of the positions and techniques of the Argentine style. It is not particularly suited to warfare or dungeon delving, but will allow you to avenge insults to a lady's honour while retaining your courtly poise."
The God Text,their," On the side of a mountain is a large sheer flat section, atop a treacherous scree slope. Whether the side of the mountain fell long ago and was carved later or, as legends suggest, the rock fell revealing the already existing words underneath, is unknown. The letters are five feet hight, carved the length of a tall man's arm into the rock, and are astoundingly smooth. The nesting birds that use every crook and crevice in the rock for miles around won't go anywhere near the words. The language is unknown. The letters are regular and square, grouped into words that are only ever four, eight, or sixteen letters long. The number of letters is disputed; some scholars classify subtle differences between carvings as being entirely different letters, others simply as variations. The most common counts are eighteen and thirty-two. Half of the bottom sixteen lines of text are taken up with a single, gigantic, four-letter word, carved twice as deep into the rock as the other letters. There are scrolls of the God Text found all over. They are often kept in ornately decorated scroll-cases made of precious metals. The scrolls themselves can be written on thin gold or silver foils. The letters might be embossed, or actually punched out. The accuracy of the transcription seems to change the effect it has on readers. Reading a copy of the God Text can lead people to drop everything in their lives and head towards the site of the original. Wizards studying the God Text have created new spells of astounding power and versatility. Adventurers have decoded the Text as a treasure map several times, leading to vastly far-flung places. Strangely, each time a powerful artefact of some kind has been found. One wizard claimed he was going to use the God Text as the basis for a Golem, but nothing has been heard from him, or his city, since then."
Corin Tasslefoot's recipe book,A homely book of cooking tips," A simply bound book decorated with a border of green vines. The book is a set of family recipes from a humble halfling farmer. He wrote down recipes from his extended family, including his great-grandmother. The meals are generally wholesome rustic food but despite that are delicious, filling, and sustaining. There are a number of recipes for travel food, from way bread and travel rations to making a good meal from the land."
The Pillow Book of Date Momoko,A beautifully illustrated scroll that you wouldn't take home to your mother," I can't actually tell you much about this. Look, it's beautifully created, written on exquisitely prepared paper and the illustrations are exquisite. But let's just say that people have been known to spontaneously combust while reading it. The Hight Priest of Eros said it was ""a bit much"". The High Priestess ran off with her copy and hasn't been seen since. However, if there are questions about bedroom ... matters that you wish addressed, well, somewhere in this scroll I'm sure it will be. In detail. With diagrams. And, some say, maths. There's supposed to be a story running throughout, of a young bride-to-be asking her female relatives for advice on her upcoming wedding night. I wouldn't know. I've only ever handled it while wearing oven gloves and a blindfold."
The Love Poetry of Dryads,New edition of an old book of poems," Chock full of translations from ancient and modern Sylvan, this bark-bound book is a little rough in your hands, and according to verse #163, that's how the dryads like it. However, verse #77 suggests a gentle rustle through her leaves will set her desire ablaze. It's all more complicated than peasant girls, so be careful when trying to make a move on your prickly lady friend. This edition has a new forward written by the celebrated elvish bard Lorendel Woodswhisper."
The Ballad of Barrik and Theda,New book recounting old dwarvish tales," This new book from the dwarvish historian Torgrim Stonehalter recounts in vivid detail the doomed adventures of Barrik and Theda the legendary dwarvish heroes and lovers of a past age. Stonehalter presents new evidence—found in the ruins of the library at Tornikkberg—that Theda was indeed the real leader of the duo, taking initiative in slaying the dragon Baazthys, and that Barrik's devotion to Theda may not have been as unwavering as the tales and songs would have you believe."
Royal Proclamation #248,Old scroll," This proclamation is nearly 300 years old, and it lays out King Haroldus's case for calling to action the Fourth Hunting of the Dwarves. There was only one other known copy of this proclamation that has survived the years, and it was stolen from the library it had been held in a few years ago. The roll of parchment is still intact and would fetch a good price from the right buyer."
More Tales from Beyond the Veil,Sequel to a popular religious book," Brother Calymus takes us further into the Spirit Realm with a new collection of stories and essays to follow up his first. Each of these focuses on a first-hand account of the journey from life to death told to Calymus by a ghost, a resurrected individual or a soul called forth from the other realms. Critics suggest Calymus sensationalizes the tales a bit to make death sound more frightening than it is, to which he challenges them to explore death on their own and then come back to talk about it."
Scroll of Rhythm,Mostly useless magical scroll," When someone versed in arcane magic reads this scroll, they can't help but start speaking in rhythm, snapping their fingers, and tapping their toes. The words start rhyme as the reader marks the time, and all those who are near can't resist the beat they hear. They start to bounce and dance as if they're in a trance. It only lasts a minute til the reader reaches the end. Then the scroll disappears, and all is as before."
Unshameful Names for Your Child,Parenting book," After learning that his traditional Dwarven name is highly embarrassing to those who speak only Common, Shi'Teater Stunck sought to ensure that no other child would suffer the same public ridicule as him. This book is the culmination of that work."
"Proper Methods of Dress, and Other Pressing Issues, Fourth Edition",Etiquette guide," This quaint text of Domoic origin goes into great detail on exactly how a gentleman or noblewoman of proper breeding should look, act, and think. Notably, more than fifty pages are dedicated to how many waistcoat buttons should be buttoned according to time of day. This edition begins with a blaring notice that, following the Petticoat Massacre, it is now considered an unforgivable faux pas to allow one's coattails to flap in the wind. A new sartorial device called a ""Tail Stiffener"" is essential for anyone wishing to make a good impression."
fanwen's funney joaks,Satirical publication," Local troublemaker Fanwen Grist has discovered a lucrative career peddling his crude humor to the lower classes, selling new collections of jokes, lewd stories, and new slang whenever his coffers run a bit low. While writing this issue, Fanwen seems to have become particularly amused by the upper crust's recent obsession with an accessory called a ""Tail Stiffener."""
Untitled Poems of the Kywirk Gurr,Anthropological artifact," The 14 goatskin pages of this oversized, fur-bound tome contain the only known example of Yeti poetry, from a highly socialized band on the leeward side of the Bittersnap Mountains. Its topics include seasonal shifts, territorial disputes among bands, and prime hunting grounds. The language is idiosyncratic and pictographic in nature."
"Trimple, Primple, Prample and Zot",Collected works of poetry," This collection of works by Gilathil Greenleaf originally became madly popular exclusively among people who could not speak elvish, captivated by the poet's soothing rhymes, wondering what deep mysteries such beautiful language must contain. Those who know Elvish, of course, know that the poems are nothing more than meaningless gibberish, words made up exclusively for their aesthetic sound. The popularity of this book in human lands is yet another reason elves tend to look down upon ""lesser peoples."""
Great Musicians of the Modern Period,An encyclopedia of famous bards," This book is a veritable ""who's who"" of modern musicians, almost all of whom are still alive and trying to make a living today. Although thoroughly researched, the book suspiciously goes on at great length about one Aloysius Fernangeles Compodius VII, describing his musical style in flattering, flowery language. Also suspiciously, one of the most popular musicians in the region is consistently referred to as ""The Drunk,"" and his musical style described as ""crude fare for the masses."""
Kalathraxas and the Basilisk's Eye,Fourth in a series of popular action novels," Kalathraxas, The Good Necromancer, has succeeded in defeating the evil Pelfanus, but now he faces his greatest enemy: himself. Can Kal overcome the geas cast upon him by a rival wizard and prevent the Basilisk's Eye from falling into the wrong hands?"
The Fall of the Haloan Empire,Historical text," On the surface, this appears to merely be a recounting of the opulent Haloan Empire's fall from power centuries ago. Some claim, however, that careful analysis reveals it as a scathing commentary on the notoriously corrupt court of King Judicus, written in code to keep the author from harm."
Lelesh Voth,"A thick, bound book that is locked by magic"," This tome's title translates to Common as ""The Power of Pacifism."" Should one find a way to open the book's magical lock, they will find that the book's pages have been carved out to make room for a magically sharp dagger with a golden hilt."
"Incomes & Expenditures, Council Treasury, vol. 343",Financial record," A relatively recent financial ledger, with hundreds of pages of densely-packed tables of numbers and brief descriptions. It would take weeks to comb through this information, even for someone with extensive knowledge of the Council's financial practices -- but surely there's no need to scrutinize things so closely."
101 Magical Tips for the Busy Housewife,Cheaply printed pamphlet," The content of this pamphlet largely consists of its overly long introduction, which tells the reader how to harness ""mental magic"" and wield ""the ancient arts"" to maintain a tidier home. Despite these promises, the pamphlet teaches absolutely nothing that's magical in nature; rather, the final six pages are merely a hastily written list of general (and mundane) housekeeping tips, such as ""Sweep your entranceway daily, to keep dirt from getting tracked about the house."" Several of the tips are duplicates, as well; the total number of unique tips is actually closer to eighty."
On the Anatomy of Goblinoid Bodies,Medical text," An exhaustive exploration of the bodies of goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears, this is the life's work of Barber Stanwen Nolik. It appears highly reputable, but no other surgeon has ever been willing to replicate Nolik's work."
The 13 Habits of Highly Effective Necromancers,Self-help Scroll," In The 13 Habits of Highly Effective Necromancers, author Stephanus D. Coeuvry presents a holistic, integrated, power-centered approach for solving problems with necromancy and the black arts. With dark humor and a blatant disregard for morality, Coeuvry reveals a step-by-step plan for raising your own undead army, plus tried and tested methods for handling standard problems like finding fresh corpses and dealing with pitchfork-wielding peasants."
Leaves of Stone,Bound stone slabs," This ""book"" is really more of a door stop, though the author would likely priests it's use as such. Its stone pages are bound by think iron rings and engraved with the musings of the great dwarven poet Wilk Whetstone."
The Herbalists Guide to Tea,A small illustrated book," This guide was complied by Anthony Crispaen, the Earl of Grey, who was an enthusiastic herbalist and alchemist. He collected all his findings and those of the druidic circles of Grey in his writings, illustrated by an artist passing through town by chance. Unfortunately the artist accidentally confused Lady's Smock with Nightshade, and the Earl died shortly after tea time the day he published the book."
The Books of Fine...,Sarcastic Non-Magical Books," It all started with an Elven wit, who on a lark one day, took a book full of blank pages, and painted on the cover ""The Book of Fine Dwarven Poetry"", and displayed in on his mantle at home. A local bookseller was in the home one day and noticed the book, and thought that would be a fine way to sell some blank books to folks. A lot of elves loved the joke, and bought numerous copies to give to friends and family. Sure enough though, Dwarves visiting the city were not as happy with the book, and some decided to return the favor, and so they created their own blank paged book, called the ""Book of Fine Elven Craftsmanship."" The Elves got quite insulted, and came out with a new blank paged book called the ""Book of Fine and Attractive Dwarven Women."" Needless to say, other titles ensued in this war of blank paged books, with titles like ""Book of Fine and Non-Effeminate Elven Men"", ""Book of Fine and Bathed Dwarven Men"", ""Book of Fine and Non-Sheep Buggering Elves"", etc. After a few months, the war mercifully ground to an end, as both sides moved on to weightier issues. But, many of those blank paged tomes are still out there."
A Treatise on Tortoises,Religious Text," The first twenty pages or so of this thin folio feature a selection of drawings, essays, and descriptions on and of the large saltwater tortoises that were once proliferant around the subtropical islands of the south. The following pages, however, seem to be written by a different hand, and while at first they follow the same structure, cryptic notes in the margins begin to overtake the text and illustrations, until they make up the entirety of the pages near the end of the book. The meaning of the notes - which largely consist of long strings of seemingly nonsense words - has been rigorously debated within the scholarly community, but at least four disparate religions and cults have been founded based on various interpretations of the text. Notably, all agree that the last page - which is naught but a tangle of scribbled, barely legible mass of ink - depicts the same thing; the face of a long dead God."
Encyclopedia of the Anvil,Book," The Encyclopedia of the Anvil are a legendary collection of collected over the years by an unknown master Dwarven wizard. With typical Dwarven ingenuity and discipline, he applied himself to cataloging magic with the same intensity of focus that a master smith would bring to a life-long masterwork. Even to the untrained eye, this collection of 15 books (50 lbs total) appear to be of exceptional quality. Despite their antiquity, they are in exquisite condition. Each page is richly illuminated, with orderly black-on-white lettering interspersed with intricate geometric designs and diagrams."
Wiki book of shared knowledge,Magic book," Few copies of this book exists and copies of it are mostly owned by most educated wizards and priests. When somebody writes something in this book, same text appears in all copies. They are used to share knowledge. Most of creatures and phenomena are described in it and owners are working hard to add new information. Because of that, book has been increasing in its size and weight, despite all the effort and shrinking spells."
Bloody scroll,Bleeding scroll," This scroll has mostly gibberish on it. But when read aloud, blood runs out of it."
Barbarian's cookbook,Cooking book," A book for illiterate cooks. Has lots of pictures and simple recipes, mostly meat."
Scroll of common nonsense,"scroll, full of useless information"," Anyone reading this scroll can almost understand it, but nobody really agrees what does it say."
The Compendium of Magical Treasures from the Thrid Kingdom of Lundor Compiled by Sir Davrick Ostagar,Old book detailing long-forgotten magical relics," Dozens of items are chronicled in this tome, ranging from the mundane to the fantastic. The description of a ring meant to imbue the element of fire to the wearer seems to stand out as the page has been dog-eared and seems worn. Another remarkable find is near the end of the book. It's a plain bone wand that is described as having ""petty and amateurish effects of prestidigitation and minor illusions,"" but off to the side, written in what seems to be a hastily scrawled ink, is the phrase ""death conquers all."""
The Tome of Current Thought,Magical book," As a person reads this book, the pages fill with a running record of whatever the reader happens to be thinking at the moment. For those who are unaware of what they're reading, this can be a terrifying experience as they see their own private thoughts wrought on the page. For instance, should the reader happen to recall an embarrassing memory, that would instantly appear. Oh dear, any horrible memory? Including the time mother caught me alone in the stables? Wait, how does this book know about the time mother caught me alone in the stables? Is this some sort of joke? Who wrote this? How do I stop this?"
Pop-up Book of Monster Summoning,Magic Book of summoning spells," This thick, crude book has a roughly painted picture of various monsters on it's front cover. But when one opens it's pages, one finds various pop-up depictions of various natural creatures of the world. On the pages with the pop-up are a poem about the creature featured on those pages. Reading that poem will act as a Monster Summoning spell, summoning that creature to the reader, and placing it under his/her control. The creature sticks around for the standard duration of a monster summoning spell, and if it's ""killed"" during battle, it will return to the book, but that creature will be unable to be summoned for a week afterwards."
The Sibylline Tomes Vol 4.,????????," A book of unknown contents. It is the first book offered to the Party by the Crone Sibyl who mysteriously appears in the players camp no matter where they are and offers it to them, for a price just a little higher than they can currently afford were they to pool all of their gold together. Refusing to talk about what is written within, or reveal anything about the other volumes. She will not allow them to bargain, or promise payment by other means or delayed payment. Should they be unable/unwilling to buy it, or try to seize it she will disappear. Sibyl will return in one weeks time offering the 3rd volume at twice the price she offered this volume for."
The Sibylline Tomes Vol 3.,Collection of Past Events," A book containing an extremely detailed description of the events the party has gone through in the past, filled with insights and facts that nobody but them could possibly know, and even ones they didn't. Feel free to poke fun at things they misinterpreted/failed to realise with your DM knowledge here. Also encourage your players to come up with things the Tomes say about them before they joined the party themselves. It is the second book offered to the Party by the Crone Sibyl who mysteriously appears in the players camp no matter where they are and offers it to them, for a price twice as high as the price she initially offered for the previous book. Refusing to talk about what is written within, or reveal anything about the other volumes. She will not allow them to bargain, or promise payment by other means or delayed payment. Should they refuse, or try to seize it she will disappear. Sibyl will return in one weeks time offering the 2nd volume at twice the price she offered this volume for."
The Sibylline Tomes Vol 2.,Collection of Current Events," A book containing an extremely detailed description of the events the party currently find themselves intertwined in, filled with insights and facts that nobody but them could possibly know, and even ones they didn't. Feel free to ruminate on the possible options and their pros and cons and what you think they might choose to do as a DM here. Also encourage your players to come up with things the Tomes say about their characters thoughts and feelings about current events that they haven't shared yet. It is the third book offered to the Party by the Crone Sibyl who mysteriously appears in the players camp no matter where they are and offers it to them, for a price twice as high as the price she initially offered for the previous book. Refusing to talk about what is written within, or reveal anything about the other volumes. She will not allow them to bargain, or promise payment by other means or delayed payment. Should they be unable/unwilling to buy it, or try to seize it she will disappear. Sibyl will return in one weeks time offering the 1st volume at twice the price she offered this volume for."
The Sibylline Tomes Vol 1.,Collection of Future Prophecies," A book containing a vast number of prophecies about future events that the party might find themselves in. Offering suggestions as to how they might overcome these events and insights into how they might be caused or avoided. Feel free to utilise a mix of things you as the DM have already prepared for and vague hints that could mean anything that you can link back to later after the fact. Also encourage your players to come up with things that the Tomes say about their future themselves. It is the last book offered to the Party by the Crone Sibyl who mysteriously appears in the players camp no matter where they are and offers it to them, for a price twice as high as the price she initially offered for the previous book. Refusing to talk about what is written within, or reveal anything about the other volumes. She will not allow them to bargain, or promise payment by other means or delayed payment. Should they be unable/unwilling to buy it, or try to seize it she will disappear. Sibyl will never return."
Necromantic Ethics by Gleebones Lemontwig,Small manual on how to be a necromancer without doing horrible things to people, A black tome containing the secrets of necromancy and how to use those without committing acts of great evil against others. Be it by pragmatism or waivers you too can learn how to raise the dead without damning yourself to the nine hells to be forever tortured by the souls of those you raised. Lacks the ceremonies considered evil by most such as how to become a Liche or raising an entire army of the undead.
Forging the End: Baron Stoneye's guide to creating your very own apocalypse,"A very thick tome containing every plan possible on how to end the world, magically updates when a new plan is formed"," Do you seek the end of the world but lack the creativity to do it on your own? Well then my friend seek out this tome, located in Bloodcrown's Books in the underbelly of the Underdark. Do you seek to raise the dread tarrasque from its slumber? Maybe you wish to know the rituals to summon hordes of outsiders ready to rend and tear this world apart. Seek out Bloodcrown's Books, find the tome and set free a plague of apocalypse level events the likes of which this world has never seen."
Syn Qutain's Hystories of the Middel-South; Edition the Fifth,A history text and hidden flip-book," The original manuscript of the much-reproduced text, its well-reputed author's final work. The chronicle itself passingly mentions a rumored treasure, artifact, or relic (commonly believed to be myth) as though its existence is fact. Upon closer inspection, the pages are lightly watermarked. When held up to light, terrains and landmarks appear, which anyone familiar with the region may recognize. As the pages are turned, the terrain appears to shift also, finally zooming in and settling on one particular spot, where on the final page the author seems to have accidentally dropped a bit of sealing wax."
Book of all Knowledge,Magical Book," Bubistai the mage, created this large book with the image of a face on the front cover. Normally, the face's eyes and mouth are closed, but when Bubistai commanded it, the eyes would open and the mouth would start reciting something. But, it can only recite things written within it's pages, so Bubistai planned to write many important and significant things within it. And indeed, he wrote magic thesises, spell research notes, and historical facts about his life within it's covers. But, unfortunately he died within a couple years of creating the book, and it fell into the hands of his apprentice, who quickly started filling the book with all sorts of nonsense, such as limericks, erotic poems, and the occasional shopping list. So, while it's called the Book of All Knowledge, buyer beware!"
The Book of Night,Artifact Grimoire," Describing the Book of Night is difficult, in no small part because looking directly at the artifact is nearly impossible. Casual glances slide straight over the Book; it is somewhat possible to get an understanding of what it looks like merely through peripheral vision, but only a concerted effort of extreme willpower can overcome this particular attribute. Once the witness' will has been asserted, however, the Book's appearance truly manifests itself. The cover is unmarked and black, neither matte nor glossy; simply black. The surface is, furthermore, adorned with silver points of varying size. Should one attempt to move the Book, they will notice that these silver markings move--or, rather, remain fixed relative to the position of the Book. When they reach the edge of the cover, they vanish, and are replaced by others that appear on the opposite edge. A particularly astute observer will note that, when held aloft and compared to the night sky, the markings match the positions of visible stars."
The Oldest,Inscribed bark tablets," The Oldest, or, to use its most proper name, The Oldest Existing Writing On Record, is a series of rectangular tablets, seemingly fashioned from tree bark. The bark is from no tree that yet lives; druidic lore and wizardly knowledge alike fail when confronted by it. The one time a Dryad was consulted, she spent the remainder of the day with bowed head, murmuring something not unlike a prayer. The writing itself is shockingly refined and crisp, despite being so old. The lettering is simultaneously foreign and familiar, with elements of most known scripts found in it somewhere. So far, only select words and phrases have been translated, mostly due to their similarity to one or more extant languages, and the translations have been rudimentary at best. The actual vocalization of this language is completely unknown."
Aerlin's Heirloom,"A great, ornate tome in a locked case"," This case is an elaborate box guarded by a very complicated lock (DC 20) Through a window of unbreakable glass a huge tome can be seen, bound in leather and trimmed in gold and jewels with an elaborate crest on the cover. The first page of the book is an exquisite etched plate print of a very elderly looking elf nobleman with the name Tabarus Now'nathal scribed under it, and inside the cover is a simple inscription: From All of Us. The next plate is an etching of an elderly elf woman. Neanna Now'nathal, wife. Then three more plates of his two sons and his daughter. Then his seven grandchildren, and his 27 great grandchildren. The faces get younger as the book goes on and it goes for 689 pages until it ends on a picture of a baby elf girl titled Nelonna Artenala, sixth great granddaughter."
On the Hunting of Fauna and Fowl in the Baldred Mountains: Ed. II,A guide to the natural inhabitants of the Baldred Mountains," A plain text, sturdily made, with an embossed leather cover. It details the hunting, preparing and cooking of most animals to be found in the aforementioned mountains. The first edition was rather controversial, I fear, because the author included recipes that contained aarakocra and various forms of fey."
Mincing Vellum,A Scroll of Intimate Scrying," The simple dusty scroll has no marking, seal nor text on it. By all appearances, it is a standard sheet of writing material that is bound by a single silver thread. When placed on another person's body, one who is skilled in magic can press their face into and through the surface of the peering directly into the persons soul much as one might peer into a body of water. In fact the caster cannot breath while using this scroll, so it is limited by how long the user can hold his or her breath, or by how long the person is willing to tolerate such an intrusion. When peering into another, you may see many thing: bitterness manifesting itself as an adder's bite, the true disposition of the soul that may even be a mystery to the person whom you are looking into, spirits that may be taking refuge within the person, or are perhaps there for more malign purposes. The scroll has had many names over the years, such as Ryon's Mirror, and Gorfellow's Embrace. Those who use it should be forewarned that looking directly into a person's soul in this manner could have dire effects on a person's sanity, and it has been noted that Arghul, a promising young mage drowned when he used it and found that he was looking into a truly beatific soul and lost all notion of time and perspective and even his need for air. A pity, really. So promising."
The Most Piteous Story of Garum Thornswallow,Gray Leather-Bound Book," This short history follow the life and exploits of Garum Thornswall, a mediocre sorcerer by all accounts who lived an average, but that came to a very dolorous end. Account however vary on the very last details of his life and how he in fact met his end. The book itself rarely agrees, telling a new story to every reader with the seeming intent to cause the greatest feelings sadness and pity that they may extract from the reader. Only the most cold-hearted readers of the tome have read it without it eliciting a tear, while others are haunted by the sadness for the rest of their days by the tale. It is unknown how a sorcerer of such middling talent could have wrought such a device, and it is also unknown how many, or if in fact any of the tales told within it are true. It is also impossible to to tell with any reasonable degree of certainty how Garum met his end. It is known, however, that this was the last and most notable of his bequeathed creations."
What sorts of goodies do we find?,"After prying the brass ring off his finger, you rifle through the cultist's robes (he sure had a lot of pockets). You find a pocketbook of daily devotions, some prayer beads that look to be carved of teeth, and a few coins of foreign make..."," Between unholy dungeons, demons, devils, resurrections, and chosen ones, I seem to have stumbled into a semi-religious theme. Naturally, that has me thinking about the kind of loot that one might find in a temple or shrine, carried by a cultist, or peddled by a wandering priest or vendor on the steps of the temple. So, let's make some loot! The loot doesn't necessarily have to magical, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs—anything a PC might want to pick it up carry or purchase as an accessory to their equipment or wardrobe. These should be mostly mechanics free. I'll post a few examples."
Bracelet of Sleeplessness,Meditation Beads," This bracelet, created by a monk who's name has been lost to antiquity, consists of 10 translucent white beads. Using the bracelet grants the user the ability to meditate for 10 minutes and gain the benefits of a short rest at which point one of the beads turns black and cannot be used again."
Tome of Insults,Uncommon Book," This book of jabs and insults is believed to have been created by a trickster god who was attempting to get under the skin of his far more serious brother. It is filled to the brim with insults, jabs, and jokes at the expense of the person, creature, or god that the user is targeting. The insults seem to have no magical affect but can be a bit disheartening to the butt of the joke."
Censer of Nightmares,Rare Magical Trinket," Found in the ruins of a long-dissolved (or fried, frozen, burned or vaporized) dragon cult, the censer is a silvered vessel, supported by a length of finely worked dark iron chain. It seems to radiate black smoke when not looked at directly, but on closer inspection seems inert. Any incense burned in the censer is many times more pungent than it would be otherwise, and seems to cause dizziness and disorientation."
Ummon's Deed,Unique Document," On her (un)deathbed, the Archlich Ummon bequeathed all that she owned in (un)life to the only man she'd ever loved - a cleric in the local non-denominational parish - forgetting that she had killed him almost two centuries before. Having no survivors (that the county solicitor could be bothered to find), the inheritance fell to the church itself, and the elderly old Dwarf who presided there. Now encased in glass (and lead, to be safe), the ornately illustrated deed sits in the church's northern apse, waiting for someone courageous enough to discover what, exactly, the Archlich's estate consists of."
Thief-Catching Rope,Belt," the DC to pickpocket you is raise by 10, and if the pickpocket fails, the rope will make a combat maneuver against it to bind its hands and legs together, with a DC of 15 (12-15 = just ties hands); If used as a belt, the Rope makes the combat maneuver regardless of pickpocket success (as long as it can see or hear the hand)"
Unimaginable Orb,Trinket," durable metal orb that cannot be scried, detected, or in any way sensed other than with one's own eyes, ears, touch, smell, or taste (such that seeing through others' eyes will have it be invisible, and you cannot imagine what it looks like once out of sight, though is recognizable on sight); world's worst object to lose"
Bag of Ham Sandwiches,Bag, Small pouch which turns any object placed inside into a ham sandwich; the pouch must be able to close to turn it into a sandwich
Babble Stone,Rock," If a stone is in your pockets, hand, or on your immediate person, it causes all speech to become gibberish; a fun thing to sleight of hand it into someone's pocket"
Rabble Rubble,Rock," If a stone is in your pockets, hand, or on your immediate person, it causes you to trail off into different conversations, compulsively; a fun thing to sleight of hand it into someone's pocket"
Rebel Pebble,Rock," If a stone is in your pockets, hand, or on your immediate person, it causes all speech to become defensive and antagonistic; a fun thing to sleight of hand it into someone's pocket"
Traveling Tankard,Mug," when held, pulls towards the nearest tavern. If hasn't been held in long enough, the handle turns into a pair of legs, and walks to the nearest tavern"
Bean of Autocoquere,Morbid Vegetable," When fed to a dead animal of less than 1 CR, the animal's corpse will briefly animate and use any means at hand to cook and prepare itself into a meal for up to 4 people."
Madman's Blanket,Blanket," Anyone sleeping under this blanket will have horrible, maddening nightmares."
Manifesto of Manipulation,Devious Folio," Covered in elaborate script. All attempts at translating will fail, but leaves translator sure they are close to cracking it. Has an air of great worth, will always appraise high. Catches on fire if within 3' of an open flame, burns bright, but is never consumed or otherwise damaged by flame."
Whimsycube,Cube of Whimsy," the whimsycube beeps when it is near something it wants; it wants random things, and when it is in sight of the thing, it will fly to it quickly, and absorb it, leaving behind something; can swallow a marble and leave a chair, can swallow a chair and leave an artifact, can swallow an artifact and leave a chair"
Charles,Figurine," This small, unremarkable figurine of a gnome refuses to be called anything but Charles. No other name will leave the lips of the speaker. It has no other powers."
Bauble of Gnome-Peeping,Orb," A crystal scrying ball that is dedicated to a specific gnome in the world and, when the command word is spoken, shows a third-person view and muffled audio of the gnome; upon gnome death, the bauble randomly selects a new gnome in the world (not random, has logic to it, but the logic is complicated and unknown)"
Fork of Greater Poultry,Four-Tined Utensil, Anything eaten with this fork tastes like chicken.
"Orb, the Horse",Orb," A sentient globe that insists that it is a horse. A perfect sphere, two feet in diameter, hovers one foot above the ground. Can be mounted and moves faster than any horse, but every turn you must make a DC 10 dex check or slip off, potentially taking damage."
String of Lots,Prayer beads," When created, these beads consist of a dozen or so colorless pearls. If a tear of sorrow touches a bead, it turns a deep shade of blue forever; similarly, a tear of joy turns the pearl golden. The acolyte is supposed to alternate blue and golden pearls through his/her life, so that he/she will always remember while praying that sorrow must follow joy and joy must follow sorrow."
Periapt of Proof Against the Flesh,Talisman," This periapt protects the user from worldly desires. While it's worn, food and drink taste bland and the user becomes sexually apathetic."
Mirror of Recollection,Trinket," This is an ornate vanity mirror with details in gold. While holding it, the user may focus on a person's name that he/she has personally met. An image of what that person looked like when the user first met will appear on the mirror."
String of Carved Dragon Teeth,Prayer beads, Dragon teeth make popular prayer beads among certain death cults. Particularly among cultists who wish to meet death in spectacular fashion as dragons are often infuriated at the site of these grisly relics.
String of Etched Human Teeth,Prayer beads," A popular focus for prayers among flesh cults, these little beads get smoother over time as fingers rub them repeatedly during devotions several times daily. Tiny evil runes are often etched into the teeth. On old sets of beads, the etching may need to be touched up."
Amulet of Protection against Possession,Questionably enchanted item," This heart-shaped talisman contains a giant heart-shaped ruby that seems to glow when it catches the light. The talisman is attached to a gold chain to be worn about the neck. Allegedly this item will protect the wearer from ghostly and demonic possession. However, it is well-known that wearing this item will attract dragons and greedy dwarves."
Splinter-Sect Pocketbook of Sacred Rites,Book of prayers and rituals," This book covers the basic procedures involved in most sacred rites: naming babies, welcoming to adulthood, marrying two people, easing the passing of the dead, and expelling demons. Unfortunately, it describes the practices for a faith other than your own. If you have this book on hand when you are about to perform one of these rituals, you can spend 10 minutes browsing the book. After which, you roll a d20. On a roll of 18 or higher, you gain advantage on the first ability check made in the performance of the ritual (having reminded yourself of a helpful tip). On a natural roll of 1, you gain disadvantage on the first ability check made in the performance of the ritual (having spoken an improper word for your faith)."
Death Coins,Religious paraphernalia," A pair of tarnished, over-sized copper coins often used to cover the eyes of the dead. A pair of these can be used as a holy symbol by a cleric who worships a deity associated with the death domain or as an arcane focus by a necromancer. If melted down, each coins yields enough copper to make 100 + d100 copper pieces."
Brass Censer,Religious paraphernalia, A basket-shaped device on a chain that can safely hold a hot coal to burn incense during sacred rituals. The outer plating contains etched images and icons of a well-known god. This can be use as a holy symbol by clerics who worship a deity associated with the fire domain or as an arcane focus by a pyromancer.
War Censer,Religious paraphernalia," From the exterior this censer appears much like any other brass censer used to burn incense in holy rites. Heavier than a normal censer, and reinforced with a steel frame and fortifying spells, clerics who worship a deity associated with the fire domain or the war domain can use this censer as a holy symbol. Anyone who holds this censer can also spin it around by the chain and whack a foe with it (it functions as a flail when used as a melee weapon)."
Ring of Ceremony Storing,Magical Ring," This ring functions much like a Ring of Storing, but instead of magically storing and recalling a weapon, you instead store the items (ie, candles, censer, small altar, etc.) needed for a specific ceremony (ie, marriage, funeral, bar mitzvah, etc.), and can summon them at a moments notice. The ring is reusable and can store the ceremonial items again after the ceremony is completed. Items stored in the ring stay in the ring even when the ring is removed, so a single priest may carry a number of these rings, one for each ceremony they feel they may have to perform during their journeys. So, if one of these rings is found in a treasure, or on a dead body, there is a good chance there may already be ceremonial items stored within. But, fair warning, these rings can be used by priests of any belief (good, neutral, evil.), so activating this ring may cause the wearer to find themselves surrounded with unholy or holy items, which could be detrimental to one's health if of an opposing belief."
Knob of Vanity,Doorknow, Must be polished before you may enter
Knob of Ill-Manners,Doorknob," It just looks like a hand and you will have to shake hands to open it. But when the door is open, it won't let go. You need a strenght check to pull yourself free or you'll need to cut the hand off risking to hurt the one who is shaking hands."
Unison Knob,Doorknob," Pair that always open and close in unison. If you can open door A, it will force open door B. If you can keep door A closed, door B will stay closed."
Knob of Nope,Doorknob," Door knob is shy, and doesn't like to be touched. Moves around the door trying to avoid getting grabbed. Can be sweet talked, but only trusts [guys|girls]. If you grab it unwillingly it will scream for an adult, that you aren't it's real owner, and anything else it can think of to get you to leave it alone."
No-Soliciting Knob,Doorknob, Retracts into door and can't be turned during certain times/certain people//certain race/unless you sing/unless someone brought ice cream.
Knob of Rob,Doorknob," As you open it, anyone walking through and near the door must make a DC 11 perception check to detect having your pocket picked; those behind you don't get an automatic check, but should they roll in suspicion of the door, the DC is 6; before robbed, hand is out and open, after, in and closed"
Knob of Envy,Doorknob, Attempts to charm person holding it into loving it
Knob of Vulgarity,Doorknob, moans with pleasure and won't open until you swear at it
Knob of Rotation Displacement,Doorknob," when you attempt to turn the doorknob, something else nearby turns instead (i.e. a nose, a boob, a backpack)"
Spring-Spike Knob,Doorknob," when fully turned, juts a spike into the hand, dealing piercing damage"
Meteoric Domino,Game Piece," A legendary domino that upon falling, demands that all in the enclosed space hear it fall, no matter how big the open space is nor how loud a noise there is in the background (if outside, everything with a soul or life/unlife hears it in the universe)"
Toothy Mirror,Standing Mirror," all whose entire image is caught in the mirror provokes it to eat their reflection, requiring a DC 15 Charisma save to resist having their reflection devoured permanently, removing their reflection as the Curse of the Devoured, for a permanent -1 to Charisma"
Frog Box,Small Treasure Box," If this box is left open near a frog, it’ll be compelled to hop in and sit there happily. The frog will stay in the box – and need no food, air or water – until instructed to hop out"
Whistling Whacking Whetstone,Rock," DC 10 charisma save to resist being forced to ""hw"" your ""wh""s while in possession; always hits as a projectile"
Indestructible Prayer Book,Prayer Book," A traveling Holy Person can see their items receive lots of wear and tear along the way, and books are often known for not being the sturdiest of items, since they can get water damaged, burnt, torn, in addition to many other ways they can be defaced or destroyed. So, the Indestructible Prayer Book was created to help traveling clerics, healers, and other holy types not have to worry about such things. The book is waterproof, flameproof, and tear proof. And the pages are illuminated with a soft light, so one could even read the book in the darkest of places. Plus, as an added bonus, if you tell it what prayer you're looking for specifically. it will open to that prayer by itself, so you don't have to fumble with pages while performing a ceremony. Admittedly these books are expensive, which is why they are usually reserved for the upper echelons of the church, but they are sometimes gifted to special priests as rewards for some great deed performed for the church."
Elixir of Feign Death,Potion," It is said that many millennium ago there lived a priestess whose beauty surpassed the god's. Men fell quickly at her feet, but none so much as an old wretched king. To avoid her fate in his harem, she concocted a vial that could bring death temporarily, only long enough to escape her peril. It is now sold as a prayer item, immortalizing innocence and occasionally used to get out of a bind."
The All-Seeing Cauldron,Mundane," A copper cauldron carved with eyes on the outside, and teeth on the inside. Food prepared in it has a metallic tang that tastes more of iron or blood than of copper."
Morpho's Box,Barely Magic Item," The ornate cedar box covered in layered scraps of pink, green, and teal silk has a slight preservation enchantment on it that keeps all insects placed into it in stasis. The priest of this ancient temple used it to collect butterflies and release them during his sermons for emotional effect. The box currently contains a stunning, fist-sized, Blue Morpho butterfly. A less moral adventurer could use this to keep a venomous insect hidden."
Father Gregor's Spoon,Mundane Item," This spoon is made out of a dried gourd, and is carved with the emblem of a baobab tree, the seal of monk and gourd carver Father Gregor. This spoon is not magical at all, but rumors state that any liquid sipped with it will taste sweet like honey."
Satchel of Hair,Mundane Item," A rural offshoot of the church of Kord states that a man's strength is held in his hair. This church collected hair from men who willingly sacrificed their strength to their god. These offerings sit in a well-made leather satchel that contains hair of every length and color, from cirrus-colored wisps of septuagenarian hair, to the most luxuriant and lengthy hair fibers of an elven lad."
SinStones,Magical Item," The SinStones are remnants found in a temple to an ancient religion, which believed that all sins were evil. The stone glows warm when it is touching the skin of a man or woman who has committed the specific sin the stone is attuned to. Unfortunately, the more useful SinStones, such as the MurderStone and the TheftStone have been found and hoarded by nobles. The only stones that one would still encounter in the wild are decidedly less useful, and reflect the values of the ancient religion. Example Stone: The AdulteryStone, the UsuryStone, the RacismStone, and others that are only mildly or situationally useful."
Three Ring's of Orin,Bind," A talisman constructed from rings of copper, iron, and silver forming a sphere. The original Talisman was constructed by a wizard named Orin Ogden the founder of the Unbroken Circle a group of mages that combat abberation and extraplanar entities on the material plane. The talisman can produce three different magical effects on command. Only one effect can be active at a time and the Three Ring's of Orin has 6 charges, 1d4+1 charges are renewed at dawn."
Potion of social Tabula Rasa,potion," A rare potion commissioned by a diplomat centuries ago to wipe clean his relationship with a foreign King who he had accidentally gravely insulted. After consuming the potion all past social encounters with the first person he or she sees will magically seem hazy and forgotten, essentially treating the first person seen as someone they just met for the first time. The drinker does not forget past interactions, but the events seem faint and no longer hold any away on the opinion of the person. Useful as a reset button in relations with someone else, but also has mischievous possibilities. The drink looks, smells, and tastes exactly like red wine."
Pearls of Piety,Prayer Beads," This string of large pearl-like stones radiate with light and warmth when the holder's prayers are heard by their deity. There is no guarantee that the prayer will be answered, however."
Tome of Remembrance,Prayer Book," This small, leather-bound book is created empty, each page filling with the prayers of it's owner as they are are offered to their god. The owner of this tome should be careful that their less-than-pious prayers and wishes may be recorded as well."
A Dragon's Delicate Diet,Trinket," This fist-sized kidney stone is said to have been passed by a dragon of delicate disposition. When held over a meal, the stone will weep a thick fluid if the food contains ingredients that may cause the holder digestive distress."
Plynic's Book of Prophecy,Prayer Book," A fairly simple leather-bound book filled to the brim with the hand-written history of the Church of Bahamut written inside, in Draconic. It belonged to a dragonborn cleric of Bahamut, Plynic Loremark, who was convinced that coded in the text was an ancient prophecy."
Book of Fel Names,Rare Grimoire, Edit: that spell doesn't exist in 5e.
Beads of Lathander,Prayer Beads," A string of 28 round, yellow, glass beads approximately the size of a marble, strung on an oiled thread. Each day, one of the beads lights up in the morning just before dawn, then stays lit through the day. At the end of the month, the sequence starts again. If a bead is removed, it continues to light for the day once per month. Another clear bead of glass added to the string will turn yellow 24 hours after it is added and begin to light on the day where it appears in the sequence. If there are more than 28 beads, the others will turn yellow, but won't glow on a day, unless they're in the first 28 on the string."
Chausable of Radiance,Magical Vestment," The chausable is a round fabric with a hole in the center for the head, which drapes to the waist, and which forms a semicircle when arms are raised to the sides as seen from the front or back. This chausable glows faintly when worn by a cleric, and when the arms are raised, radiates a bright light for 20' and a faint light for 40'."
Stole of Thaumaturgy,Magical Vestment," This long fabric stole drapes over the shoulders and down to the feet of the wearer. It is normally worn over an alb or other vestment. It is made of a fine silken fabric and has upon it sewn various divine symbols, vertically down each side of the stole. When worn, the wearer may touch the various symbols, even very lightly, to recreate one of the features of the cantrip Thaumaturgy, providing a veritable special effects board of public speaking tricks. This device works for anyone wearing it, not just clerics. Three of its features may be active at once. One wonders why a cleric would have needed such a thing to be created. Hmm."
Scythe of a Death God,Scythe, This is the Scythe that lies in the Necropolis. It is lies in wait to be wielded by the champion. This scythe has a blade of the purest obsidian and a handle made of dark iron wood. It is a +3 weapon that deals and extra d6 necrotic damage.
Mark of the Acursed,Amulet," This amulet is carried by those exiled into the Necropolis as a means of execution. This mark brands a dishonorable death, and will curse any who pick it up. Any who remove one of these amulets that are made of pure silver, has disadvantage on checks and saving throws related to a skill of the DM's Chosing until the amulet is returned to the Necropolis. (This is good for a plot hook whether your players remove it or an NPC, either way the players can have a reason to find and return the amulet)"
Chirpy,Mechanical Construct," A mechanical bird inside a small golden cage. It's animated, and can talk to whoever holds it."
Divining Dice,Dice used for fortune telling," Three dice with various markings carved of bone, one of dragon, one of beholder, and one of unicorn. Each die is used to augur a different aspect of a person's life. Dragon for wealth, beholder for power, unicorn for health. (up to the DM if the bones are what people say they are :) )"
Helm of Vomitose,A dented great helm," This helmet was cursed by a trio of warlocks, constantly harassed by an overbearing Lord to create enchanted items. They escaped his small fiefdom while he lay on the floor of their workshop, retching into the helmet. One must make a fortitude save when donning the helm. On failure, they vomit uncontrollably until removal. There is no curse that keeps the helmet on."
Trial of Faith,Instrument of Self Flagellation," This is a beautifully ornate whip with multiple lashings, each tipped with a hooked barb, and designed for self-mortification. The devout of some religious orders will use these whips to lash themselves as penance to atone for their sins. Whipping your own bare back with this instrument will cause 1d10 slashing damage, and repeating the process until you have expended half of your HP will allow you to feel a powerful connection between yourself and your divinity."
Pant's of Many Pockets,Pants," A pair of pants with twenty magic pockets. An item placed into a pocket will take up the expected amount of space in the pocket, but from the outside will appear flat as if empty. Great for shop-lifting, or secreting away large-ish items."
Locking Key,Key," This is a small brass key that can lock, but not unlock, a surprising number of doors and chests and things."
Bottle of Deceiving,Bottle," This bottle is designed such that it can hold two liquids. When looking at, smelling, or licking the rim of it you will believe it to hold one of those liquids, but tipping it up to drink will release the other."
Coin of Privacy,Magical Coin," While the coin is facing heads-up upon a surface such as a table, it causes the 'Silent Table' effect as per the spell. It has no effect while not set upon a surface, such as in a pocket, or while the coin is facing tails-up."
Ancient Worry Stone,Trinket," This palm-sized stone is flat and ellipsoidal, made from roughly hewn marble. In the center is a slight indentation, polished mirror smooth from countless thumbs rubbing circles over the aeons. Many claim that catching their own reflection in this divot brings a sense of serenity and peace of mind."
Holy Cast,Tool," This item appears to be just a normal block of bronze at first glance. Upon closer inspection however, a seam down the center becomes apparent. With a modicum of force it will split into two halves, revealing the inverse reliefs of each side of a holy symbol."
7 Bolts of gold embroidered fabric,Trade Goods, The finest linens from the Far East and fancy royal robes could be made with these.
Silver Sickles,Coins, These crescent moon-shaped coins are large enough to hold a copper farthing in their inner diameter
Manticore Nesting Materials,Monster Garbage," Amongst the sticks and rocks that make up the nest, an assortment of rusty weapons, tattered clothes, horse barding and other gear can be found. If the party spends 10 minutes going through it all, they find a scroll case with the King's messenger service emblem on the lid and a few coin purses containing 34 gold pieces."
Overly-excited Throwing Stars,Ranged," Sentient shuriken that when thrown scream ""Wheeeee!"", negating sneak attack damage."
Coatl Feather,Creature Bits," This foot long, iridescent feather is supple to the touch. Though it does not retain any of the magical essence of its former owner, it could fetch a reasonable price from a collector or fashion designer."
Illithidium Ingot,Metal," A 5kg gunmetal gray ingot with an oily purple sheen and spiralling engravings on its surface. Crafted by Mindflayers in the depths below through unspeakable rituals, it is psychoreactive, psionically moldable, and supernaturally durable and useful for crafting if one knows how to work it. Whatever unnatural force binds this metal together is destroyed by purifying sunlight, causing it to rapidly rust away, even when magically enchanted."
Blasphemous Statuettes,Art," This set of 8cm tall figurines depict the gods engaged in lewd, lascivious, or otherwise despicable acts unbefitting their divine nature. Extensively detailed in all the wrong places. Collectors should be careful not to complete the whole set, lest they bring down the wrath of the heavens upon themselves."
Tome of Arousal,Better than Nothing Magical Item," This five-thousand word, clinical manual is an immensely detailed description of the physiological and neurological processes of arousal and alertness. Some minor magic has infiltrated the tome and causes a heightened state of self-awareness after ten minutes of reading. Reading the tome for an hour or more produces a sensation akin to continual sexual arousal and stimulation. These effects cease the instant the reader looks away from the tome. If the reader continues to read for longer than 8 hours, they experience random, acute narcoleptic episodes for the following 24 hours."
Skin-bound Ledger,Information," A small lined notebook bound in supple, tanned leather, with a dedication in the front cover reading ""Binding from Reijek, RIP."" Touching the ledger produces a deep sense of revulsion strong enough to prevent the weak-willed from looking at its contents. Inside is written a detailed list of transactions, with columns for Name, Quantity (g), Surface Area(m2 ), Skin Quality, and Police Inquiry (y/n?)."
Zerth Braid,Consumable Magic Item," Taken from an elderly Githzerai monk, this 10cm length of dark brown hair contains a shadow of its former owner's psionic power. As an action, it may be used to cast Mage Hand (the hand is invisible) once per short rest. It may also be used to cast Shield as a reaction, but is destroyed in the process as it expends the entirety of its energy."
Orb of Vacuum Polarization,McGuffin," Filled with scintillating colors and pinpoints of light swirling in a nebula, this large glass orb randomly fills the vacuum of space with infinitesimal matter and anti-matter pairs that immediately annihilate each other. This partially counteracts electric fields in a vacuum, albeit minorly. Sounds powerful, but no one is quite sure what any of that means."
Okayberries,Supplies," Collected from large shrubberies in the deep woods where little light penetrates the canopy, these slightly unripe, purple berries are hard and mostly flavorless. A creature can use its action to eat an Okayberry. Eating a berry restores 0.5 hitpoints (rounded down), and the berry provides enough nourishment to sustain a creature for 15 minutes. Up to 6d4 berries are found at a time, and spoil after 2 weeks. They never fully ripen or taste any better."
Moistanite,Gems," Glimmering, clear gems that can be magically produced during storms of wild magic. Each is as brilliant and clear as a diamond, but they are usually larger and less over-priced, though they are- paradoxically- magically inert and useless as components in spells. They are perpetually clammy and precipitate dew even in the driest desert. A large handful of Moistanite may be squeezed to produce a trickle of clean water."
Tin of Inspiration,Better than Nothing Magic Item," A pocket-sized, metal box with inspirational quotes painted on the side in various languages (""You can do it!"", ""Follow your dreams!"", and, inexplicably, ""Losing isn't so bad!""). Opening the hinged lid of the box reveals a small illusory locker room containing a coach in the middle of a high-pitched, half-time pep-talk to a group of underdogs. Closer inspection reveals every entity in the box has the exact physical features of the person who opened the box. The speech will continue as long as the box is open, though the coach becomes increasingly desperate, sweaty, and incoherent after 2 hours. When the box is closed, there is a barely audible cheer of ""Team spirit!"" from the entities."
Blade Tattoo,Consumable Magic Item," Tattoo and ink set allowing up to 12 tattoos to be made. Can be used to tattoo any non-magical weapon onto a live body. As a bonus action can be removed, tearing the tattoo from the skin, which forms into a bony, fleshy form of that weapon. DC 12 Con when removed, on failure take 1d6 damage and nauseated for one round. On success, take half damage. Weapon dissolves after five minutes."
Mezzard's Pipe,Smoking Pipe, Mezzard Youngstrike’s pipe. Stories tell that Mezzard used wizard’s weed religiously and was always seen with a pipe in hand or mouth. This pipe’s magic constantly refills its bowl with whatever wizard’s weed is contained in the enchanted pouch connected to it.
Mezzard's Enchanted Pouch,Drug Pouch," Mezzard Youngstrike’s pouch that is linked to Mezzard’s Pipe. The interior of the pouch is a 20ft square space used to keep Wizard’s Weed and other drugs. The interior of the pouch keeps all plants and drugs fresh for use forever, untainted by outside sources. If you put this pouch in another extradimensional space, ie bag of holding, both extradimensional spaces collapse and a portal to the Astral Plane opens, sucking in anything within 10 feet and teleporting them to a random location on the Astral Plane. The portal is one way."
Porcelain Plate of Anger,Better than Nothing Magical Items," This white dinner plate is simply adorned with a blue stripe that goes around the brim. When someone picks up the plate, they must immediately make a will save (or game equivalent) or be irrationally angry for 1d4+1 rounds. In addition, the plate is then immediately thrown against the nearest wall or ground (This effect takes up the first round of anger). The plate shatters upon impact, but magically fixes itself after 1d6 minutes. The rage effect can happen three of times per day per person. If the person picking up the plate is a barbarian that has rage rounds, these rounds can be used as free rage rounds. The number of rounds caused by the plate does not count against the number of rounds they can rage in a day."
Folding Bridge,Better than nothing magic items," This item looks like an unassuming 8 ft. plank of lumber, but close examination of the ends reveals seams in the wood. The seams can be pulled apart to unfold the plank to form a solid bridge of any of the following sizes: It takes a full round to unfold the bridge from one size to the next. It can be folded back up to its portable size at the same rate. Once unfolded, the bridge can be placed across any gap and holds in place without apparent support. It can withstand up to 40,000 pounds in weight; any excess weight causes the bridge to break, permanently destroying it. The bridge can be easily be lifted at either end. Regardless of size the bridge itself always weighs the same as it does in its plank form (15 lb.) plus the weight of whatever is currently atop it. The collapsible bridge can be attuned to a particular person. Once attuned, only that person may unfold or fold the bridge, until it is attuned to someone else. Furthermore, only the person so attuned can lift the bridge once placed."
Inflatable Skeletons Box,Better than nothing magic items," A palm-sized heaxagonal box carved from ebony, with a removal lid on both sides. Both lids are etched in the design of a skull, one smaller than the other. When opened, the off-white contents within begin inflating rapidly like a balloon filling with gas. If the larger skull lid is removed, after thirty seconds of inflation a human skeleton appears in a free space adjacent to the box. The skeleton is genuine and not in itself magical. If the smaller skull lid is removed, inflation takes twenty seconds and a halfling skeleton appears instead. The box can create one inflatable skeleton per day. If a skeleton is created while another exists, the first crumbles to dust. Perfect for causing distractions, framing enemies, and entertaining at children's parties."
Laughing Idol,Better than nothing magic items," A six-inch high statuette carved of jade in the likeness of a hugely overweight robed man in the throws of laughter. Once per day, the statuette can be rubbed to immediately cause sapient creatures within a 60-foot radius centred on the statue, with the exception of the creature who rubbed the idol, to make a Wisdom saving throw (DC 13). On a failure, the creature is suddenly immensely amused and unable to contain their high spirits, becoming both incapacitated and restrained on their next turn following the saving throw."
Simple Bunting,Better than Nothing Magical Items," A brightly-colored flag checkered with a diamond-pattern, this seemingly innocuous piece of fabric is both stylish and functional. When worn or attached to a weapon, the bunting creates a chameleon-like effect and coats the clothing of the wearer in an illusionary layer matching the color/pattern of the bunting."
Obsidian Star,Gems," Carved out of jet-black obsidian, this star-shaped gemstone is a wonder to behold. It is always cold to the touch, even when placed in the hottest furnace. Only Dwarves possess the capabilities and knowledge to cut or reshape this precious gemstone."
Tangled Wire Mesh,Art, It's a bundle of metal bits fused together with heat. That's it. But it's classified as 'art' so I'm sure somebody would be willing to pay a hefty sum for it. It's a shame the artist didn't want to take credit for such a memorable piece.
Bell of Bleating,Better than Nothing Magical Items," A simple brass bell that is typically found around the neck of a goat. When rung, it mimics the sound of a goat bleating. Become the shepherd you never knew you wanted to be!"
Golden Gold-Leaf Leaf,Treasure, An intricate oak leaf cast in gold and covered in micro-thin gold-leaf. The redundancy is real. Don't leaf it behind!
Tim's Never-Empty Flask,Better than Nothing Magic Item," This unassuming steel flask is always filled with wine, no matter how many swigs you take."
Eau de Faerie,Better than Nothing Magic Item," This crystal nebulizer with a pink bulb mists a pleasant floral perfume. The scent of the perfume lasts for one hour after application and makes you irresistible to pixies, sprites, and goblins. These creatures can smell you from up to 1,000 feet away and will attempt to touch you, unless you have shown yourself to be a threat to them. Hobgoblins and bugbears can also smell the scent from 1,000 feet away, but they will become furious when they get within 30 feet of you and realize that you are not, in fact, a tasty pixie or sprite."
Ghoulflesh Scented Candles,Better than Nothing Magic Item," When you burn this candle, the smoky odor of roasting ghoulflesh fills the room, ideal for setting the mood for foul necromantic rituals, preparing volunteers for human sacrifice, and all manner of depraved acts involving corpses. The scent sickens any living creature that comes within 30 feet of the candle for 1 minute."
Giant Owl Pellet,Creature Bits," A giant owl pellet is a disgusting tangle of fur, bones, and feathers. Sometimes, if you dig into it, you can find a few coins that some unfortunate creature may have swallowed or carried, thinking them lucky, only to be, in turn, swallowed by a giant owl. The pellet contains 1d4 - 2 silver pieces and 1d6 - 3 copper pieces, if you take the time to pick through it carefully."
Owlbear Pellet,Creature Bits," If you thought the giant owl pellet was disgusting, you don't want to know what you might find in an owlbear's pellet."
Fire Beetle Glowing Gland,Creature Bits," This fist-size organ is a little gooey in your hand, but it sheds light like a torch for up to 8 hours after being removed from the beetle."
Crocodile Skin,Creature Bits," In the right hands, this could make a fine pair of boots."
Lizardfolk Skin,Creature Bits," In the right hands, this could make a fine pair of boots. Be warned: It's best if you tell everyone the boots are crocodiles. Moralizers who are against the wearing of the pelts of sentient creatures have been known to splash wearers of lizardfolk-skin boots with buckets of chicken blood."
Minotaur's Horns,Creature Bits," Long, thick, with a pointy tip, these horns would look great over your fireplace. Perhaps you could convince that odd little guy who lived down the lane and liked to whittle too much to carve you a nice pair of hunting horns."
Minotaur's Manhood,Creature Bits," Long, thick, and covered in coarse fur, legends speak of incredibility virility being gifted upon those who eat it. Some swear by it, and I've heard it tastes quite good in a stew with barley and broccoli."
Eye of the Necromancer,Creature Bits," This is the necromancer's eye. He put it out with a hot poker, preserved it by mummification, then animated it with a foul ritual. The eye twitches a bit, but otherwise it doesn't appear to do anything. However, the one-eyed necromancer, wherever he is, can see what the eye sees as if it were still in his head (provided he didn't damage it too badly with the hot poker)."
Riv Stecke's Guide to Fey Crossings,Book," This book will help you find the nearest fey crossing to make your way into the Feywild. Most of the fey crossings listed have ceased to function due to being over-run with travelers since the publication of this book. However, a few of them still work. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes three days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to fey crossings."
"Bold Alehouse Favorites, by Bob Bayfly",Book," This book is a must-have for the cook in any lonesome wayside inn, bustling city tavern, or adventuring party who's sick of rations. Within the pages of the book are new twists on recipes for salted pork and beans, beef and barley stew, roasted duck with apples, honey-glazed carrots and parsnips, stuffed trout fillets and many more, along with suggested ale and mead pairings. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes two days of downtime to read), you have advantage on checks made using cook's utensils."
"Cosmos-ology, by Cal Sargan",Book," A guide to the multiverse written in plain language by one of the leading experts in metaphysics and interplanar travel. Sargan was the greatest communicator among the wizards, priests, sages, and other scholars of his generation who studied the heavens, the stars, and the strange spaces in between. Tragically, he left the world through a portal several decades ago and has not found his way back. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes ten days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to the Astral Sea and the Far Realm."
"Interview with Some Vampires, by Ena Neric",Book," The author spent extensive time meeting with a wide range of known vampires. Her precise question-and-answer style writing has become the definitive work on the subject of these cursed undead. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes three days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to the vampires."
"Werewolves in the Mist, by Dossia Fyne",Book," The author devoted her life to studying the habits of werewolves and other lycanthropes, particularly those who have chosen feral lives far from civilization in the deep forests of the world. Her book is an early voice in the argument against clearing of the forests. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes three days of downtime to read), you have advantage on knowledge checks relating to the lycanthropes."
"I Golem, by Isacas Movia",Book," This volume is an extensive treatise on the morality of using golems as enforcers, guardians, and laborers in place of actual sentient beings. The author's thesis: the golem, when properly crafted, animated, and instructed cannot harm its creator. Of course, we know this isn't necessarily true in all cases. The book also contains diagrams and instructions on building your own golem. If you have read this book in the last year (it takes three days of downtime to read), you have advantage on Intelligence (Arcana) checks relating to golems."
Robe of Guilt,Clothing," This fine black robe will make you look guilty. When a crime is committed while you are in the room or general area, questioning eyes will turn to accusing eyes as they fall upon you."
Moonfear Shield,Shield," This shiny silver shield is emblazoned with the cycles of the moon, with the full moon largest and nearest the top, surrounded by intricate tree-branch patterns. If during a full moon, a lycanthrope misses you with a melee weapon attack while you are wielding this shield, you can use the opportunity to slip away (you can use your reaction to Disengage [or similar action in other editions])."
Ring of Attract Aquatic Creatures,Mostly Useless Magic Item," This ring is pliant and brightly colored. If you're not careful, you can catch your finger on the sharp steel of one of two barbed hooks that protrude slightly from the soft jiggly material. To use this ring's power, you tie the ring to one end of a piece of string and tie the other end of the string to a stick. With this improvised device, you can catch freshwater fish."
Ring of the Firebuilder,Mostly Useless Magic Item," This ring is made of flint. When struck with a piece of steel, it sheds sparks. When placed well over dry kindling, the sparks will start a fire."
Ring of Bubbles,Mostly Useless Magic Item," When you hold this ring between two fingers and dip it into a solution of soap and water, you can blow through it to produce amazing bubbles."
Ring of Attract Male Creatures,Mostly Useless Magic Item," This ring, when worn by a female humanoid, makes her irresistible to male humanoids. She will receive unwanted attention, suggestive comments, declarations of affection, and offers for free drinks and places to lie down. Written on the ring in small script is a warning against wearing it around male creatures who have been consuming alcoholic beverages after dark."
Ring of Emotional Projection,Mostly Useless Magic Item," This ring, when worn on the finger of a creature with an Intelligence score of 5 or higher, turns color indicating the wearer's current over-riding emotional state: red indicates anger, yellow indicates joy, blue indicates sadness, green indicates disgust, and purple indicates fear."
Ring of Animate Toys,Mostly Useless Magic Item," When the wearer of this ring plays with a child's toy, that toy is granted a semblance of life. The toy can move about, talk, and interact with other toys or humanoids. The toy cannot harm another creature in any way. The toy can answer questions, but it does not know anything other than what a toy could know. One minute after the wearer ceases playing with the toy, the toy returns to it's normal inanimate state."
Gideon's Impossible Lantern,Better Than Nothing Magical Item," The lantern that burns water as it is sometimes known. How exactly Archmage Gideon made this lantern is unknown, but it is known that he never needed candles again and saved a fortune in whale oil. Any liquid that fills the lantern will burn as bright as the bearer wishes it to, but will produce no heat."
Phoenix Downs,Creature Bits," These soft red feathers are obtained the same way as regular downs, such as from a goose or a swan, but at considerably greater risk for considerably greater profit."
Ring of Farsight,Joke Magical Item," This pleasantly shiny ring, when turned 3 times about the ring-finger, will show the wearer 5 seconds of what will be happening to their location 3,000 years from now."
Barnaby's Arcane Pulley,Better Than Nothing Magical Item," This resembles a regular pulley with 200ft of thin string attached to it, however the string is magically reinforced, giving it the ability to move up to 1,000lbs when pulled on."
The Ring of Solomon,Powerful Magical Item," Not an item to be trifled with, this item gives the user the ability to command creatures not of this plane. The user must raise the ring to point at the creature in question and speak its words of power, whereupon the creature will fall under the user's command unless it is warded by powerful magic. Unfortunately the words of the ring are lost to the mists of time."
Gideon's Last Wish,Better Than Nothing Magical Item," The last known relic of Archmage Gideon. This amulet hangs around the user's neck with a minor enchantment on it that makes it slightly uncomfortable to wear, unable to be dispelled. The mechanism by which it activates has never been properly observed, however whenever circumstances are dire it lends its aid in some way that may often go unnoticed. Rumour has it that this is the soul of the vanished Gideon himself bound within the amulet, influencing the world with his powerful magic."
Tablet of Yelong,Powerful Magical Item," The tablet of Yelong was granted to the infamous Warlock by his patron, Orcus. The lord of the undead inscribed it with dark and foreboding runes, that grant whoever holds the tablet the power to raise the dead to fight for him. While Yelong lived no mortal army could destroy him, as with every casualty his forces grew ever stronger. With his death the tablet, untouched by all attempts to destroy it, was sealed in a lead coffin and dropped into the deepest pits of the Underdark."
Ring of Duo-Dimension,Joke magical item," Upon wearing this cursed ring, which appears to be a Ring of Protection, the character becomes two-dimensional. Their depth is placed on the Astral Plane and they become a 2D being with only width and bredth. From the side they are totally invisible and they can squeeze through any gap without expending additional movement, and are especially vulnerable to being pierced or cut."
High Elf Pipeweed,They call 'em High Elves for a reason," Commonly burned in the forest courts High Elf Pipeweed is a type of hemp impregnated with the deep magic of the Feywild. When the smoke from burning it in a magical fire is inhaled it may give magical visions of the future or the past, and as such is favored by oracles and soothsayers. Under the effects of antimagic it merely produces a light-headed feeling and a desire to eat apples."
Darkspice,Supplies," One of the world's most valuable commodities, Darkspice produces a subtle, smokey flavour and a slow-burning heat that is highly prized by gourmets the world over. With the only source for this spice being the caves beneath tropical zones a handful can be worth enough money to keep a man living comfortably for life."
Bloodsoup,Supplies," The stable of Orcish ""cuisine"" this bitter vegetable soup apparently tastes like nothing to their palette. Experiments with Half-Orcs have thus far been inconclusive. The main ingredient is bloodgrass and other herbs, along with small amounts of meat. A single waterskin's worth of Bloodsoup can feed an Orc for two days, and it provides a great deal of nourishment for armies on the campaign trail relative to the cost to produce."
The Jib Cutter,Joke Magical Item," This glittering steel knife, with a jeweled golden hilt, is the bane of dandies everywhere. Upon falling into your hands you become blithe and insensitive, forced to say the first thing that comes into your head in conversation."
Cormac's Kilt of Holding,Just what does he keep under there?," Fashioned carefully from two Bags of Holding by the Druid Cormac some time ago, the kilt of holding can be worn just like a regular kilt. But as long as the wearer is wearing nothing else underneath it it functions in the same way as a Bag of Holding."
rules,man!," Similar to a Horn of Valhalla this horn summons a large group of Orcs in place of the regular human berserkers. However they have no proficiency with weapons or armor, and instead carry instruments and dancing shoes with which they will stage a production. There are four different types of horn that produce different types of performance:"
The Household Staff,Better Than Nothing Magical Item," When placed at the centre of a house or mansion with adjacent lands of no less than 5 miles this staff will summon enough Unseen Servants to perform every rudimentary task that needs doing. Cleaning, cooking delicious meals, gardening, slipper fetching etc will all be done by the servants punctually and efficiently. However they will not follow orders from the owner and will continue their tasks until the staff is moved."
The Chronicles of Theodoro Slavado,Information," Salvado was/is an explorer hired by many influential nobles to map different areas of the world. As such his notes contain detailed descriptions of each place he visited, along with the important figures and the local customs and culture. Salvado's current whereabouts are unknown, the last the was heard of him was just before he voyage to investigate the Cannibal Islands, claiming that ""The name can't be that literal."""
Valaran's Ring,Magical Item," Valaran wandered the earth, a prophet to some, an omen of doom to others. Wither he walked he would not say. Some claim he was lost and seeking something that befuddled even him, others that he had seen some vision of a dark future he must prevent, others say he wanders still and is wandering for its own sake. Valaran's ring is named in his honor, though it was worn by men before him and he predicted it would have a thousand masters after he gave it away. When wearing the ring the bearer need only speak the name of their destination and they will be guided there inexorably, led down forgotten paths and routes that offer the quickest travel with the least danger."
Dahrruin's Bow,Powerful Magical Item," Dahrruin, son of Setenan of the Lancathan Dynasty was a prince of Elvenkind who could shoot another arrow from the sky with his own, or so it was claimed. This bow bears a special affinity for Elves and when wielded by one they may fire arrows with it without being seen and with unerring accuracy, as they whisper through the air to find the throats of enemies."
Crown of the Sunken King,Powerful Magical Item," A relic of the Sunken City of Hellionsberg, as long as the user is standing waist-deep in salty water the city's portal to the Elemental Plane of Water will disgorge three water elementals every hour that will obey all the user's commands."
Flint & Steel,Powerful Magical Item," Flint is a greatsword that is a dark, shiny black like polished flint, with a curious and vaguely cruciform groove in the pommel that runs up and onto the blade. When wielded alone it will be nothing more than ordinary. Steel is a shortsword that shines like silver polished to a mirror sheen, imbued with magical properties it will shock living flesh with sparks of electricity when brought into contact with it. When combined the purpose of Flint's groove is made obvious, as Steel fits securely into it and cannot be removed except by the one who is attuned to Flint. When the two combined strike anything flames are produced that will burn the target."
Sarcophagus of the Ancestors,Potentially Useful Magical Item, While a character lies in the Sarcophagus of the Ancestors without illumination and the lid tightly sealed they may speak to their ancestors. No sound from within the sarcophagus may escape into the outside world and the lid is too heavy to lift from the inside.
Spud Gun,Better than Nothing Magical Items," No ammunition is required, as this strange cylindrical device reloads itself, presumably from the Elemental Plane of Potato. Range: 30/120 feet Damage: 1 + DEX bludgeoning damage (Unless proficient in Food Fighting, then 1d6 + DEX) Properties: Two-handed, Ranged"
Stormplate,Armour," Wrought in bright steel, this ornate (+1) plate armour has lightning bolt patterns raised from its surface in blue-burnished metal. Other symbols and icons of the Storm Spirits also decorate the armour, and are included on the buckles and clasps. Once per short/long rest, the wearer may, when hit by a melee attack, cause the attacking creature to take 1d8 lightning damage (1d12 if the wearer is associated with the spirits of the storm) as a reaction."
Golden Pseudodragon Statue,Art," This lifesize golden statue of a pseudodragon is perfect in its detail. The creature is captured, almost photographically, rising on its hind legs, neck outstretched, as if to greet some friendly hand which is in turn reaching out to stroke its reptilian head. Such quality, finesse, and attention to detail is unheard of in modern casting methods, and were it not so preposterous a concept, one could be forgiven for thinking that it might be a living being, cursed by some unknown magics in the distant past."
Perfectly Ordinary ChickenTM,Pet, It's a chicken.
The Squeezy Dolphin of Endless Water,Magic Item," This is, to all intents and porpoises, a Decanter of Endless Water, with one small variation - it seems to be a child's toy, which produces only a small squirt of water when squeezed. If this is truly a childs toy, then what does that tell us of the power of the ancient civilisation that created it? And why did it find itself in such a dark and terrible place as where it was found?"
Mazes & ManticoresTM GM Set,Gaming Set," This chest contains a wide variety of items. Maps of made-up continents and cities, sets of polyhedral dice in a variety of colours, pens and pencils, ""Character Sheets"", and a set of large books talking about ""XP"" and ""Levels""."
Dice Tower of Fortune,Meta-Magic Item," This short rod is assembled from a series of regular polygons, with 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 20 sides respectively. You can use one of the dice to achieve the maximum roll of that dice type when one is rolled during the game. In doing so, the corresponding dice vanishes from the block. This is intended to be something that you might even make (from cheap dice and blu-tak, perhaps?) and hand to the player who loots it. It will appear, in-game, to be a simple object, albeit one with a faintly magical aura. Once attuned to the object, the character learns that they can call on its power when in need. I called ""meta-magic item"" because it's sort of in the boundary between player and character, if that makes any sense."
Tricksy Rope,Magic Item," Touching the rope will activate it, but will also drain 1d4 HP. Once activated, the rope will obey your mental commands to the best of its ability. It can rear up like a snake, and tie itself in knots. Touching other sections of rope to it will lengthen the rope, whilst decreasing its dexterity."
Memories in Amber,Better than Nothing Magical Items, These typically looking small gemstones contain most cherished memories of a long dead mage. By holding one in a closed fist user can relive stored memory. Originally made for personal use these small trinkets are now their maker's only legacy.
Blade of Remove Evil,Sword, This mundane-looking sword will simply pass through a being of good. A being with impure thoughts or evil ideas will have them purged from him/her for several hours. Due to its affect on free will it is considered unethical and even sinful to use this weapon.
Blade of Reject Evil,Sword," A well made sword. It passes through all beings, it harms the impure more that the pure of heart. The flaw of this weapon is that the purity of the heart is from the perspective of the target, meaning it will not affect truly evil beings who feel justified in their actions."
Blade of Rebuke Evil,Sword," A beautiful sword. This incredibly dangerous weapon causes the evil within one hit by it to explode outwards. This blade appears almost sentient, and does not forgive sins. The explosion caused will have a total power based on the total ""sins"" of an individual over their lifetime."
Blade of Relinquish Evil,Sword," A broken, rusted sword, one struck by this blade is absolved of all evil. This changes the personality of the target entirely, removing all impure thoughts and memories. This power comes at a cost, for the wielder takes damage equal to the amount of ""sin"" absolved."
Blade of Realize Evil,Sword," A common-looking sword, indistinguishable from any other sword, seems to change appearance slightly based on its location. The wielder of this weapon gains a strong sense of how ""evil"" any opponent is while in combat with them."
Ring of Whoring,Ring," The wearer of this ring will become the most popular (wo)man in the brothel, despite nothing physically changing. Prostitutes will not ask for payment. No one knows how this enchantment works, but the nature of it leaves it rather valuable to some."
Potion of Dying Will,Consumable, Drinking this potion will certainly kill its user. It however brings great strength and speed to the one willing so sacrifice everything. The user of this potion are engulfed in harmless flames of their favorite color. It is said that these potions are very rare and usually are only made by accident.
Gnawed Moon Charm,Amulet/Consumable," A glassy charm in the shape of a moon, with many claw and tooth marks. The person in possession of this item is affected by the werewolf curse, changing on a full moon. If this item is broken by its owners hand at dusk they will become a werewolf that night, regardless of the moon."
Circlet of Endowment,Headpiece," A rather unclean looking circlet of galvanized steel with a green glass centerpiece. It makes certain features of the wearer appear greater. For men, crotch and shoulders look larger. For women breasts and rear appear larger. A warning, many know the look of this rather unattractive artifact."
Bathhouse silk,Trade goods, Strange silk often dyed a deep blue. The touch of this silk feels unmistakably as if one is underwater.
Living Paintings,furniture," Paintings that exhibit a regular and repeating movement, within the picture. Each individual painting is different, and may feature an animal grooming, a person waving or any other small action. Many are too superstitious to have one in their home, the right buyer however would pay handsomely."
Synchronized Sculptures,Better than Nothing Magical Items, This pair of ~6-inch tall soft clay statuettes are magically linked. Any alterations made to one sculpture are reflected in the other. Disclaimer: the magical sculptor is a slow worker. Changes may take as long as 4 hours to be implemented.
Isuna's Cane,Magic Quarterstaff," This lengthy staff cultivates a fire within its shaft and can be used in two ways. The wielder can twist the two halves to ignite the staff, which can then be used as a bomb of sorts. The user is advised that, once triggered, the staff will explode within seconds. If instead the user wishes to retain the staff, small bursts of energy can be spouted from the tip."
Barrel of Bubbling Brew,Alcohol," This large wooden keg is bound with leather straps for easy transportation. The barrel is filled with a wonderful dwarven ale that seems to create its own endless effervescence. When one drinks the bubbling brew they begin to feel lighter than air for a few moments and may even leave the ground until the gas is expelled (through one exit or another). The barrel itself is weighted down with rocks as to not fly away, but still feels as light as a feather even when full."
Dead Sprite in a Bottle,Magical Artifact," If a Character dies with this on their person their soul will be transported into the dead sprite giving it life and the consciousness of the dead character. There is no reason to suspect this item has this quality, and no one knows quite why it works. Some say a Link is formed between the person and the sprite. Additionally the bottle will not open until the sprite is infused with life, even if they Try force."
The Little Tome of Serenity (nonmagical),calm emotions," The Little Tome of Serenity appears to be a small paper-bound book with ornate scrollery with the name ""Little Tome of Serenity"" written in slow sweeping strokes. Looking at the Little Tome of Serenity instantly causes a subtle feeling of calmness to come over the observer. The book can be opened and a passage read from its list of calming wisdom causing all who hear the words to make a DC 5 wisdom save of stop what they are doing and smile gently for 1d6 rounds."
The History of Screaming (nonmagical),Book/Information," This truly dull sounding book is an in-depth book on the history of screaming as researched by little-known half-orc linguist Grimf Thurd. It is a truly dry read and takes 40 hours to complete regardless of intelligence level. When/if the reader does complete the book, they are imbued with the knowledge and understanding of the raised voice, giving them a +1 to all vocal-based checks involving yelling or whispering."
This Thing (magical),Trash/Tool," This Thing appears to be two purple hemispheres with a copper colored pipe coming out at an angle from off-center of one hemisphere. Nothing is initially known about This Thing, but on a DC 25 inteligence check, it can be determined that when the two purple hemispheres are rotated against each other, a small flame suitable for lighting smoking apparatuses springs out of the copper pipe until the hemispheres are rotated back. This Thing never runs out of fuel."
Very Special Bottle of Wine (nonmagical),Treasure/Alcohol, This is a very special bottle of wine which the owner originally intended to deliver to a very important person. This bottle of wine looks completely ordinary and nondescript. It is easily mistaken for a not very special bottle of wine. Those who consume this bottle must make a DC 15 wisdom check in order to avoid trying to refill this bottle with other ingredients in an attempt to placate the bottle's original owner by replacing what they drank.
Good Summer Reading Material (nonmagical),Book," This book is perfect reading material for a vacation. It has trash, but different kinds of trash. It has social themes, believable characters, suspense, and thrills. It's about a temporary worker who is 29 and who can't get a boyfriend, and has only 12 days to stop a war with The Elder Dragons."
Chunky Soup (nonmagical),Food, A bowl of chunky chunks. This hearty meal sustains for an entire day in just one cup of soup!
A Numbered Tea Kettle (nonmagical),Trash, This looks like an ordinary tea kettle save for a large number on the side.
Leather Breastplate (magical) (cursed),Armor," This breastplate appears to be a normal leather breastplate except for the fact that it is extremely comfortable. It feels like a pair of comforting hands across your chest. After 6 hours of continual wearing, this breastplate mysteriously catches on fire, dealing 1d10 fire damage to the wearer."
The Orb of Longevity (magical),Orb," This orb, when told about a person's life and dietary habits predicts that persons age of death. The orb knows if the user is lying and will only speak about someone to that someone."
Cloak of Masculine Facade (nonmagical),Cloak," This very masculine cloak provides the wearer advantage on all non-lethal team based competition checks while worn. However, it also imposes disadvantage on all other interactions. This item requires attunement/disattunement periods of 2 hours."
Moss's Everfilling Bag of Popcorn (magical),Food," Prior to interesting events, this bag mysteriously fills with fresh popcorn for all to enjoy!"
Stress Detector (magical),Tool," This compass-like device has a red needle inside of a glass case which, when held in the palm of the hand, points to numbers 1-20 to indicate the stress level of the holder."
A Racist Torch (magical),Tool, This torch can only be lit by Humans.
Indestructible Dinnerware,Tool, This collection of porcelain plates is indestructible unless dropped or otherwise brought into contact with the ground at which point they catch fire and burn as a piece of wood of that same size.
Jaberwocky (nonmagical),Trash," Win. Innovate. Redefine. New Definition. Faster than a Swallow. More powerful than... another swallow! More magnificent then a fish, or a whale. Have you heard about this? Everyone is talking about it. It's the next biggest thing. It will revolutionize the way you live. What is it? Jaberwocky."
Healing Kit (nonmagical)(cursed),Tool," This bandage, when applied to the wearer gives a +5 foot bonus to movement speed, and advantage on all dexterity checks for a duration of 12 hours. Afterward, the character takes three levels of exhaustion."
Metal Blade,Throwing Weapon," A black gem on the back of a glove. Flicking the wrist creates a vicious-looking metal disk lined with razor-sharp teeth. When thrown, deals 1d8 damage plus strength. Blade gains +1 to hit every five levels."
Leaf Shield,Defensive Weapon," A small green gem affixed to a bracelet. On activation, a cloak of swirling leaves surrounds the wielder, granting +5 to AC. The user cannot attack or move while the shield is active. The shield can be deactivated, or the mass of leaves can be ejected to fly off in any direction, dealing 1d6 damage to whatever it hits. Once thrown or deactivated, shield cannot be reactivated for 1d4 rounds."
Atomic Fire,Chargeable Weapon," A red gem set in the palm of a glove. The gem can be charged via concentration, up to 5 rounds. When discharged, shoots a fireball in a straight line. Fireball diameter is 1 ft per round charged, and deals 1d6 damage per round of charge. Dissipates when it hits an enemy."
Orb of Eroticism,Better than Nothing Magical Item," The creator of the Orb is lost to history, but the Orb has turned up seemingly at random in various times and places. Most owners won't admit to owning it due to it's dubious moral nature, but all enjoy it. Touching the orb inspires lust in the toucher - first a small sensation growing stronger the longer you hold it. Eventually, your urges become unignorable, and the consequences can be...interesting."
Tiny Tentacle Plant,Better than Nothing Magical Item," The Tiny Tentacle Plant is a miniature potted plant that has been magically enhanced - it eats magical items, or fragments thereof. It never seems to get bigger than about six inches high, and about 6 tentacles in size, loves direct sunlight but scorches in the heat - perfect for the windowsill in an adventurer's bedroom."
Lever of Vecna,Better than Nothing Magical Item," A large enchanted crowbar, for opening incredibly large drink containers. Even mentioning it to the priesthood or followers of Vecna is enough to get you murdered on the spot."
Goblet of Natural Corruption,Better than Nothing Magical Item," Similar to a goblet of endless water, this container never empties and must be kept tightly sealed. However, the purity of the water inside has been corrupted. Rather than clean drinking water, the goblet produces a thick blue goo that drives plants into a wild, dangerous form. When allowed to pour its contents on any sort of natural flora, it will corrupt the area at 1d4 square feet/round."
Delver's Cask,Booze," This oak cask, with silver banding, has a simple engraving of ""Delver"" on it. There is a simple wooden cork at the top that never rots. Whenver the cork is pulled after being plugged for an entire night, the cask will be filled with ale. After the cask is fully drained, it disappears, reappearing at least a hundred miles away."
Trick Rope,Rope," This twenty foot length of rope is made of a material that is wholly unfamiliar to the casual observer. It is extremely light, weighing only a quarter of what a similar length of hemp rope would weigh. The rope functions just as normal rope, but when the words ""Arath a'Dar"" are spoken, the end will form into a perfect lasso."
Splintering Staff,Cursed Staff," This splintered staff, slightly over six feet long, is straight except for a slight knot at the top. Anyone that holds it for more than one hour will find that they have a splinter in their hand. The splinter immediately burrows beneath the skin, causing intense pain, and will work its way up the victim's arm and toward the heart. Unless the victim has had a Remove Curse spell cast on them within three hours, they will die when the splinter pierces their heart."
Blue Silver,Magical Decor," A bluish-tinted platter and a small, white cloth. On observing the platter is blue ceramic, but any divining done upon it will reveal that it's actually a rare form of silver that is tinted blue. Whenever the single seed of any single fruit or vegetable are placed on the plate, covered by the cloth, and left alone over night, the next morning, the actual fruit or vegetable will have taken the seed's place."
Rune Stones of Tempus,Twelve large standing stones," These stones when gather together on a mountain, and embiddened with the right incantation, will summon a wraith of the old God of Storms. This God was powerful during the reign of the Giant Empires, and is not a mere shadow of himself. Once they are gathered one of three things will happen: 1) The God Spirit will tell you your future, or grant you a Wish. 2) The God Spirit will go forth and destroy your enemies. 3) The God Spirit will turn on you in an attempt to destroy you. (It will be a Greater Lightning Elemental or the like) Once whatever conclusion has happened, a great thunderclap will sound with a bolt of lightning striking each standing stone. They will then disappear to be scattered across the earth again."
Misses Miggins Healing Hot Pies,Food/Potion," Misses Miggins is a very old and very skilled baker and alchemist. She many years ago combined her hot cherry or meat pies with her excellently brewed healing potions. Its perfect for the hungry hero, looking more then to guzzle a viscous liquid."
The Humble Blade,Paladin Greatsword," The Humble Blade appears to be a very old, rusted, pitted and nicked greatsword, with a hilt of tattered dry leather. Upon picking up the blade any equipment or clothes you have on your person will also appear ragged and old, and your appearance will also begin to slowly become more tattered. It is however a +2 Greatsword that when used by a Paladin deals 1d12 Radiant damage with every hit. This only works for a paladin who does not care for their appearance, only for the work they must do for their god."
Eldwizor's Special Pan Flute,Musical Instrument," Once per day, the pan flute's bearer may play a special, short melody on the pan flute. Doing so summons a quartet of imps that appear in a puff of smoke within ten feet, standing on an assortment of small wooden crates. They begin to play groovy (though slightly creaky) music using their instruments: a pan flute, two lutes and a hand drum. The music lasts for five minutes, after which the imps disappear with their crates in a puff of smoke."
Faerie Torch,wondrous item (torch)," This torch is alit with a blue, green, or violet flame. The flame sheds dim light in a 10-foot radius, and it creates no heat and doesn't use oxygen. This flame can be covered or hidden, but not smothered or quenched. Anyone openly holding this torch cannot benefit from being invisible."
Behir Blade,Weapon - Greatsword," A greatsword that hates dragons and loves to kill them. This blade will compel a wielder to slay any dragon and gives them bonus damage on damage rolls. A small amount of sentience nudges wielders in the general direction of the nearest dragon regardless of color, type, or alignment."
Tasha's Gloves of Laughter,Cursed Magical Item," These exquisitely-made jade green gloves are stylish enough for males or females, and subtly resize themselves to whoever is foolish enough to pick them up. Upon putting both gloves on, the wearer begins to laugh uncontrollably and must make a Will save DC 18 to stop long enough to pull the gloves off again. If they continue laughing for more rounds than their CON bonus, they begin to suffocate, yet continue laughing. Treat as though they were drowning."
The Lover's Gem,Gems, A simple rose colored gem that shines brighter the closer you get to your soulmate.
Randural's Finger,Weapons, The finger of an ancient and evil archwizard/emperor of a lost civilization. When used as a spelcasting focus changes the damage type of the spell to necrotic
Belt Buckle of the Battalion,Better than Nothing Magical Items," A belt buckle shaped like a Rams head, when metal touches the belt buckle the area around it echoes with the sound of a thousand swords being unsheathed"
Switching Stones,Better than Nothing Magical Items," Two matching stones, riverbed smooth with a hole in the center, one green the other red. When both stones have breath blown through the center hole at the exact same time, the two blowers switch places instantaneously."
Compass Of Usefulness,Better than Nothing Magical Items," Like a regular compass, except with multiple needles each pointing toward different useful things, such as north, the nearest source of fresh water, the strongest nearby evil aura, nearest large concentration of gold, nearest civilization (exact definition of civilization may vary by user), and nearest storm. Needles lengthen and shorten as the object gets closer or further away."
The Truth,Magical Weapon," A +2 Longsword. Matte grey steel, plain guard and a cloudy white gem on the pommel. Can instantly dispel illusions with a melee touch attack and the pommel glows when being lied to."
+4 Vampiric Keen Wounding Flaming Heavy Crossbow,Gag," When fired, all it does is unfurl a tiny flag that says THWANG."
Weapon Blacking,Gag, Can permanently make a weapon an intimidating black
Bracers of Shiv,Weapon," Two leather bracers, with scabbards attached holding a total of 6, small metal daggers. When an enemy is stabbed by a dagger, the user leaves the dagger in the body. For every dagger added to the victims body, the damage goes up 1 die. (d6,d8,d10,d12,d20). A victim can remove a dagger with a DC10 strength check and take 1d4 damage."
Canteen of Party,Type of Treasure," A canteen that upgrades its contents, when water is poured in a random fruit juice pours out, juice in ale out, ale>wine>vodka>rum>Whiskey>Dwarven Stout> poison> water."
Troll Fist Hammer,Weapon," A stone Troll hand attached to a 3' wooden stave. Obeys Commands: Grabbit, Leggo, Fist."
Blanket of Fire,Better then Nothing Magical Item," A heavy wool blanket that unfurls to a roaring campfire, roll it up to extinguish."
Hearthstone,Better then Nothing Magical Item," A custom of Fharlanghan clerics, a white porous stone that is kept in the middle of each nights campfire. If used for 3 consecutive nights, the stone will begin to keep undead away while in the fire."
Ever Billowing Cloak,Better then Nothing Magical Item, A cloak that always billows dramatically
Boots of the Island,Magical Item," Supple leather boots, stained with salt. When the wearer steps onto water a 5' diameter island of sand appears at his feet. Supporting her above the water."
The Cat Came Back,Weapon," A great wizards, before her death, placed her former familiar Harley's mind in a clockwork cat. Harley is aloof and lazy like most cats, but he will follow whoever holds his mouse squeaky toy. Harley looks like a black cat at a quick glance but closer inspection shows he is metallic and covered in black soot. Once, a day the owner of the squeaky mouse can send Harley at a foe, and with one squeak of the mouse, Harley will detonate as a Fireball spell dealing 1d6 . But Harley doesn't always listen; percentile die 01- 15 Harley looks at you with a disdainful expression, 16-30 Harley comes to you and rubs against your leg, 31-45 Harley wanders to a random spot , 46-60 Harley takes his time and approaches your target next round, 61-75 Harley bounds to an enemy of his choosing, 76-90 Harley goes right to your target and rubs against its leg, 91-100 Harley immediately dashes to the most tactically sound position. The next morning Harley will reappear somewhere near you, sleeping on a tree branch , batting insects near your campsite, or curled up on your chest when you wake up."
Ever Faithful Dragon,Better Then Nothing Magical Item," A small statuette of a red dragon, when it's tail is held down it breathes a small continuous flame."
Book of Holding,Magical Item," A thick leather bound book titled "" An In Depth Study of the Whole Shebang: Foreward by They"". When another book is placed on top of this one it will slowly sink into the tome, reopening the book and reciting the title will fill the book of holding with that books contents. Close the book and name another title and those pages can the be retrieved."
The Mariner's Joy,Ship in a bottle," This full-sized boat fit for sailing across the seas is able to be shrunk and put in a bottle with the correct incantation. When out of the bottle, the ship is a large caravel with a black sea serpent on it's two white sails."
Demon's Fury,Longsword," The sword of a legendary paladin who fell from grace and who made a dark pact with a demon seeking to be freed. After the fallen paladin was killed, her sword was taken by a family member for safekeeping, for an old prophecy tells that this demon will rise again, and another member of the family will right the wrongs of their ancestor wielding this blade."
The Dark Tome,Old book," This old book was found by an adventurer in a ruined temple in the jungle, who, finding the book unreadable, sold it to an antiquities dealer. No one has yet been able to identify the text, though several have tried, for the script is of the couatls of old. The book is thick, with a simple cover of black leather, which is where the book's name comes from."
Frostbringer,Long staff," This staff is oddly shaped, made from what appears to be snow-white wood. A blood red leather handle is wound around it, where the wielder is meant to hold it. This is the weapon of the Prince of Frost, and many of the archfey's powers have been absorbed by the staff."
A polished globe of sand quartz,Silvery crystal," Sand quartz is a mysterious crystal that is mined in the desert. There are stories of people being able to communicate through different globes of sand quartz, but mostly, people just use the opaque silvery gem as a nice-looking object."
Ghelki,Coin, A small but valuable black iron coin used by a fallen empire. The ghelki has recently been put in use by the orc tribes who have taken over the empire's former lands.
Elixir of Immorality,"Potion, consumable"," When ingested, this liquid causes one's alignment to shift to Evil (the L/C axis is unaffected) for the next 1d6x10 minutes."
Handbook of Recursion,Book, This strange tome describes a dice-based game in which the players describe their actions and roll dice to determine the outcome. It sounds like many an adventure could be had with this curious hobby.
Ring of Chafing,"Ring, cursed"," In addition to whatever other properties this ring may have, it also causes an intensely uncomfortable loss of skin beneath it. After 1d6 hours of wearing, the effect reaches a noticeable point, and all attacks made with that hand, or spells cast using somatic components, have a -1 modifier."
Forkroot,Poison," This odd herb has a bothersome effect on magic users. When ingested, generally through an infusion in a drink, it prevents spellcasting for the next 3d10 minutes, or until the target succeeds a Constitution (or equivalent) saving throw."
Great Axe of the Betrayed,Magical Weapon," Ummm guys.... I got carried away. This axe is always covered with tacky almost dried blood. Even when cleaned the blood always returns. The axe itself has a bad history of betrayal and vengeance which lead to it gaining powers. The axe was originally forged by an elven smith living in a human city along with other weapons. The smith was to forge ""100 pounds of good steel"" to pay off his gambling debt. The holder of said debt found many ""problems"" with the expertly crafted steel and kept the elf in servitude for months after the debt was paid. The next instance of betrayal was against the man holding the debt, though he may have deserved it the betrayer had no way of knowing that. A half elf merchant and his men bought the steel in bulk all of the elves work after the forgemaster had been freed. They paid in enchanted copper coins, The holder of the dept was hanged when he paid his taxes in fake gold coins. The Half elf and his men traveled south hoping to trade their ill gotten gains and found the road had been blocked by a tribe of gnolls. A gnome and his band offered to help but only if he got half payment now and the other half when the job was done. This did not end well for the half elf whom paid in a crate of his wares. The gnome returned and said the road was safe and his men would guard the caravan until it reached the town past the plains. He was lying of course and had given the gnolls the crate of weapons in exchange for their help slaughtering the half elf and his men. The gnolls promised the gnome the wealth in exchange for the weapons. They lied too. The gnolls left the scene with all of it including the weapon that would later be called the Axe of the Betrayed. The gnolls lived in a strict matriarchy and the gnoll whom acquired the axe was the brother of the reigning matriarch. Given only select females were allowed to breed any offspring from any non sanctioned unions would be eliminated. A warrior female and the brother to the chief had one such union. He promised to keep the child safe. His weak will saw that the matriarch found out about the child and forced her brother to accompany her as she tracked the mother down. She ran for days but eventually the matriarch and her pathetic sibling caught up with her. On the rocky plains she gave her child to a band of adventurers moments before the Axe of the Betrayed was thrown into her back by her former lover. She died from the wound but not before seeing the confused half orc hand her child over to the matriarch. She watched as it was killed. The axe was left in her back but she would not stay dead. She arose as a Revenant the next night and buried her pup properly. Using her new undead powers the gnoll mother destroyed her former tribe and tracked the band of adventurers in the southern swamps. She was destroyed and her axe taken. Though she still seeks vengeance the Axe has found new owners. The axe itself is magical now and where as it was used to cause great suffering and betrayal the powers that inhabit it seek to right wrongs instead. The axe becomes a +1 weapon against any foe who has attacked a companion of its wielder. This bonus also is gained if the wielder has seen the target harm an innocent. The axe deals 2d12 instead of 1d12 if a companion is reduced to 0 hit points but only on the wielders next turn and on the target causing the damage. (once per turn) If the wielder is seeking to bring justice to a betrayer the axes power truly shines. If the wielder can recount aloud the betrayal the target has caused in combat the next hit the axe lands on the target is automatically a critical."
Rust Monster Powder,Creature Bits, This powder comes from the crushed exoskeleton of the rust monster. It can be applied to non-metallic weapons to corrode the armor or weapons of the wielder's enemies.
Bitter Knot,Ring," A ring carved from a knot in the root of a long-dead tree. It is charred-looking and rough to the touch. The wearer becomes immune to any poisons or diseases taken through the mouth, but all food and drink tastes like ash."
"Theophon, Bellringer of the Gods",Weapons," A large mallet with brass caps on the striking ends of the head. When struck against the ground, it produces a deafening clamor and a shockwave that can knock those nearby off their feet."
King Prochamos and the Snails,Book, King Prochamos and the Snails is a poem describing a fictional king's disastrous campaign to rid his garden of snails. The poem is meant to be taken as a political allegory for the previous king's ineffectual attempt to extradite a particular group of people.
Hat of the Creator's Exorcism,Better than Nothing Magical Items," A hat both tall and... gaudy. Anyone wearing the hat will look so garish that they will be asked to leave whatever social event they are attending. At the very least, the host will accept any explanation they give for their departure."
Grey Diadem,Gems," Grey Diadems are a peculiar form of spinel that forms around a round stone. When removed from the other stone, the Spinel forms a disk with raised edges and (often) a hole in the center, which bears some small resemblance to a crown."
Gravedigger's Lamp,Magic Item," The glass around the lamp is cloudy and cracked, and any candle placed inside gives only a pitifully weak glow. However, if the lantern is placed somewhere which rarely sees natural light, such as a cave or crypt, the candle will start to burn low. As it burns out, everyone present gently falls asleep. They awaken in the Shadowfell. Also, everyone bathed in the lantern's light while in Shadowfell seems as if they belong and automatically pass Disguise (but not Impersonation) checks."
Necromancer's Hand,Magic Ring," A simple ring, found on a dismembered, rotting hand in the mud somewhere. While worn, user can cast Mage Hand as a cantrip, but it takes two actions to do so. Also, after every use, the user's hand and arm become rotten and skeletal (including armor and clothing), like the arm of undead. The effect eventually fades, but it takes longer and longer each time. Use this too much, and it'll spread to the rest of the body. If it reaches the body, the bearer dies and becomes undead (but still sentient!)"
Malcolm's Dagger,Weapon," If you write an oath with blood spilled by this dagger, the person who the blood belongs to must fulfill the oath or die."
Sulfuric Gecko Crest,Creature Bits," Highly prized for their purity, these crystals of sulphur harvested from their ferocious, fire breathing former owner are sought after mainly by gunsmiths and alchemists. While beautiful, the crystals' unsavory smell makes them a poor display piece."
Wyvern Tooth,Creature Bits," Rare and valuable, if harvested properly these sharp, flame resistant teeth make for exceptionally deadly arrows and bolts that allow even a shortbow to pierce a Knight's plate. Treasured in areas where Salamanders are a threat to the populace."
Dragon Powder,Creature Bits," In spite of its name, this highly combustible powder is not harvested from dragons, but rather several species of fire breathing wyverns. Consisting of rapidly decayed poison as was only recently discovered through research into the evolution of these species, the powder is excreted through the mouth, where the creature's saliva protects it from the adverse effects. When kept most, the outer layer of a ball of the powder will become crusted and hard. When consequently broken open against a solid surface, the resulting explosion created by the expanding and combusting powder will deal mainly force damage to all in the area. Due to the difficulty of harvesting and storing the powder safely the select few that purchase it do so at a high price. While unconfirmed, several wizards have stated that using the powder as the material component for the ""fireball"" spell is not only possible, but also greatly enhances it's effects."
Backhand Striker,Longsword," This longsword has been crafted with a short blade on the end of the pommel. When the wielder makes a successful attack with the longsword, they may use a bonus action to attack with the pommel (Dex+Prof to hit, 1d4 + Dex damage)"
Boots of Tripping,Boots," The wearer can choose to use an opportunity attack to trip the enemy by a Dexterity contest. The wearer has advantage on the roll. If the target trips, it falls prone and takes 1d6 falling damage"
Spiteful Spear,Weapon," This wickedly sharp spear has a shaft of dark grey metal with an unpleasant oily sheen. The stuff of shadows constantly coalesces and drips from the tip of the spear. If the spear even scratches an enemy, this dark essence can be used to form a necromantic link between the wielder and the victim. Once per long rest, the wielder of this weapon may activate its special property after successfully striking a target with the spear. Until the end of the encounter, whenever the wielder of the spiteful spear takes damage the target also takes 2 points of damage. This damage is of the same damage type as the attack on the wielder."
Sazaran's Spice Rack,Tools / Supplies," A small wooden rack that, curiously, only has room for one jar. The jar that comes with this rack is empty. Away from the rack the jar is completely ordinary, it is merely a receptacle for the magic of the rack. To use the power of the spice rack, the lid of the jar must be removed and any spice or edible herb named. The jar immediately fills with the named flavouring. The contents are enough to flavour a single meal for up to ten people. Naming a second spice or herb replaces the contents. Spices and herbs already named can be re-summoned but the amount in the jar will be reduced by the amount previously used. The capacity of the jar for each spice or herb refills after a long rest. No matter the amount used, no flavouring created by the spice rack has the capacity to poison, even if it normally would when ingested in large doses. The spice rack simply cannot create any herb which is inedible. A person may be attuned to this item; if so attuned they can use the spice rack for its real purpose: effectively, an innocuous poisoner's kit. The attuned rack will happily create poisonous herbs for its owner, and any edible herb that is actually poisonous in high doses is now no longer safe when ingested in large amounts."
Superabundant Spice Rack,Supplies," The original magical spice rack used by Sazaran the Assassin was much admired by a number of people who had no idea of its true purpose, and it inspired imitations. This spice rack functions similarly to Sazaran's Spice Rack, but has no hidden purpose. It is exactly as it seems, and cannot be attuned to create poisons."
Shortrope's quick fingers,Armour," These black leather gloves give the wearer advantage on all lock picking attempts. As soon as the character dons the gloves, they emit a faint but high pitched hum. This hum grows louder the longer the user goes without taking them off."
Helm of Suicidal Tendencies,Cursed magical helm," The helm is made of black iron with three rubies inset on the inside of the helm. These rubies glow occasionally, one for each attempt the helm will make on the wearer’s life. At random the helm will attempt to dominate the wearer into a fatal circumstances."
Staff of Protective Shell,Magical quarterstaff," A staff that allows the wielder a few seconds of invulnerability. It is easily mistakable as an ordinary walking stick – made of finished golden oak wood, it has a few carvings inset along its length and a gnarled knot at the top"
Basilisk Eye,Creature Bits," A Basilisk's eye can be stolen or looted from a live Basilisk. Everone who looks into the eye needs to make a DC 13 Constitution check. If the check is failed, the person is turned to stone."
Grazodim's Necklace,Cursed Artifact," Grazodim was a greedy man during his life. His necklace was his prize which he kept around his neck until his grave. The necklace itself refused to stay put as it took on the life and greed of it's former master. Anyone who wears the necklace will be able to communicate with it. It will tell the character where to find gold using (Wisdom) Perception checks. It won't rest until it has obtained new gold every day. If the wearer refuses, the necklace will choke the character until it's dead and use it's body to move around, looking for a new wearer or new gold. It can be removed with a Remove Curse spell."
The Sword of Bawking,Magical Weapon," The Sword of Bawking is best presented among many seemingly normal chickens. It begins as a simple chicken that appears nothing more than dinner. However, when it senses danger for the person who last fed it, it hops up and transforms into a powerful sword. Its head becomes the pommel, its neck the grip, its wings the guard, and its legs fuse to become the long blade. It functions as a (insert enchantment level) longsword until all the danger is dispelled, at which point it turns into a normal chicken once more and acts as if nothing ever happened. If bred with another of its species, it's chicks will transform into daggers in the same manner."
Bloody Cultist Coinage,Currency," A number of shimmering rose-gold disks about an inch in diameter, and thicker than an average coin. They are stamped with complex geometric patterns, the grooves of which are stained with blood."
Pilgirm's Boots,Better than nothing magical item," These beautiful calf-skin boots were crafted by a leatherworker named Corneli for his love Adele, to aid her in her lengthy pilgrimage to The Holy Rock. For many weeks on end he worked, weaving subtle magic between and among his stitches. Once the shining brass buckles are secured, the wearer of these boots will never tire from traveling on foot. The boots do not dirty from the dust of the road, nor do they ever seem to wear out. However, before he gave the boots to Adele, Corneli's jealous rival, the Enchanter Aneu, cursed them with a dread bewitchment. Whenever the wearer attempts to move at a faster pace than a walk, the buckles will come unclasped, causing them to stumble and fall. Corneli - who knew nothing of the curse - gave the boots to Adele on the day of her departure. The two lovers took a bit too long saying their goodbyes, and so she was forced to hurry to catch up with the other pilgrims. As she ran across the Red River Bridge, Aneu's enchantment took effect, and she fell off into the water and drowned. Corneli was heartbroken, and buried Adele's body by the bridge where she died. He never forgave himself for what he thought was his own failure. He threw the boots into the river, and vowed to never work magic ever again."
A Jar of Dirt,Better than Nothing Magical Item," A glass jar that is always filled with dirt. No matter how much is removed or poured out, the jar does not empty. The bottom is opaque, and serves as a small one-way gate to the elemental plane of earth, from where the dirt comes. If the jar is damaged, it becomes simply a normal glass jar. The dirt pours out (with the jar upended) at approximately 0.5 liters of per second under standard conditions. I've got a jar of diiirrt, I've got a jar of diiirrt, I've got a jar of diiirrt, and guess what's inside it! [More dirt]. The composition of the dirt (along with texture, color, etc) is of the DM's choosing."
Tin Whistle of Cat Summoning,Better than Nothing Magical Item," A rather ordinary looking whistle made of tin that children are often seen playing. However, blowing this whistle causes 1d4 cats to appear from just out of view, which then dart away and disappear after 1 minute"
Mathgar's Stick,magic item," A six inch stick from an oak tree with the bark removed, highly polished and marked with Mathgar's rune of identification. Can be made to grow up to ten feet tall, with a diameter equal to length to a maximum diameter of six inches. The stick stays at that length for 8 hours unless collapsed by the person who extended it. The stick can only grow to whole number lengths, from 1-10 foot. Attempting to grow half sizes requires a dc 10 check with no modifiers. Can be used once per day, recharges at dawn. Can be made to grow larger than 10' but with increasing difficulty at dm's discretion. No matter what size it is, if used as a weapon only ever deals 1hp damage as it is still a stick. If the stick is broken it breaks with a large crack that will deafen anyone within ten feet for 1d4 rounds, and is thereafter rendered useless as anything other than a broken stick. If burnt the stick releases a purple flame."
Mathgar's Wooden Ring,Magic Ring," Requires attunement. A polished wooden ring marked with Mathgar's identifying rune. Grants the user advantage on all tree related difficulty checks and saves, eg jumping out of the way of falling trees, climbing trees, grabbing a branch when falling, retaining balance when fighting in a tree, hiding in a tree. If climbing a tree requires no dc check then the users climb speed is double."
Mathgar's Piece of Bark,Magic Item," Requires attunement. A circular piece of bark, about an inch in diameter, well polished and varnished, marked on the back with Mathgar's identifying rune. Has a pin on the back to allow it to be worn. Grants the user the ability to cast Barkskin on self once per day, recharges at dawn."
Mathgar's Lucky Leaf,Better Than Nothing Magical Item," A green leaf, mystically preserved, that never dries. Protects the holder from lice, killing all lice that come into contact with the bearer's skin or clothing while worn."
Mathgar's Charcoal,Better Than Nothing Magical Item, A piece of charcoal that when placed in a cooking fire infuses the food with exquisite flavour.
Miphon's Feather,Better Than Nothing Magical Item," The wizard Miphon was renowned for his command of the animal world and for his pea green hat with a feather in it. This feather, when worn in a hat, protects the character from bird droppings."
Hellshield Log,Material," Cut from a Helaa tree, this charcoal-coloured wood is completely immune to fire damage, and absorbs all fire it touches."
Living Wood Log,Material," This wood is still alive, and regenerates rapidly. All structures or items made primarily of this wood regenerate 1HP per round."
Resonant Wood Log,Material," Harvested from a bellow tree, this is a light, amber-coloured wood used in creating objects that replicate sounds. A skilled carver can create a wind instrument that replicates an organic sound he/she has heard within the month."
Ethereal Wood Log,Material," A pale, shimmering, purple-tinged wood that, when incorporated into a weapon, will never kill a creature (Leaving a creature alive at 0HP.)"
Copperwood Log,Material," Used frequently in the creation of sentient or autonomous items, there are rumors that there is a manual hidden somewhere that incorporates this wood in the process of combining those things."
Kariminite Ore,Material, Picks up on spells or magical effects that have happened near it; used as a substitute for an ingredient for related magic items. Also used in transferring the properties of magic items to other items.
Eye of the Beholder,Monster Bits," The large, central eye of a Beholder carries a powerful antimagic, and they are often enchanted to gain potency and preserved in the center of prisons and other areas where antimagic is needed. The eye can be shrunk without losing much potency."
Unicorn Horn,Monster Bits," This gleaming, pearly, spiraling horn can be powdered and sprinkled over the body of a dead creature to bring it back to life. The creature does not have to be willing, but this magic only works if the creature has been dead no longer than one week."
Phase Silk,Material," A faintly glowing, light-blue silk made from the thread of a phase spider. This silk is essential in the creation of extradimensional magic."
Glove of Extract,Better than Nothing Magical Item," A Glove of Extract is an ambidextrous green glove with golden Sylvan lettering and designs on it. It holds five charges and regains 1d4+1 charges at dawn. The wearer of the glove can expend a charge by saying the command word while touching a liquid container with the gloved hand. Once they do so, the glove begins to glow faintly and the patterns shift across the glove’s surface. The wearer then holds a palm-sized comestible (or several of the same comestibles in an equivalent volume) in the gloved hand and squeezes. The glove destroys the food and creates juice which streams lazily through the air into the designated container. A single charge can create up to 4 pints of juice, but it will never create more than the selected container can hold."
Staff of the Time Magus,Powerful Magical Item," This oak staff clutches a sapphire at its tip and is otherwise a perfectly normal, if knobbled and twisted, staff. It contains 2d6 charges, one of which may be expended as a bonus action to weave fates together. When a charge is used after casting a spell that requires a saving throw with the staff as an arcane focus all forms of advantage are cancelled and all targets have disadvantage on their saving throw. Legendary Resistance may still be used. If all charges on the staff are expended then it shatters and it is destroyed at all points in its timeline, which is convoluted and strange, it reforms three months later at all points along its timeline. Due to the convoluted nature of time with the staff there may be multiple versions of the staff in existence at the same time, which will instantly shatter if touched together. In order to permanently destroy the staff some way must be found to seclude two of them from the stream of time and then touch them together. This will mark the end of the timeline of the staff and it may not exist after that point."
Forestwalk Boots,Magic Item - Boots," Inspired by the 'landwalk' abilities in Magic: the Gathering, that allow creatures to move through specific terrain unimpeded or unseen. Soft leather, covered with dry grass. Increase speed by ten feet when outside and not slowed by terrain. When obscured by moderate foliage, wearer may use their Action to become invisible until they make an attack, cast a spell, or are in an area of no foliage. Worn leather, sand-covered and salt-stained. Create patches of sand beneath the surface of deep water able to support the wearer's weight. Wearer may wade across any amount of deep water as though through difficult terrain, the sand sinking again after them. Unidentifiable leather, heavily water damaged. When in shallow water, grant advantage on Athletics or Acrobatics checks to keep footing, wearer does not suffer movement penalties from terrain, and wearer may Disengage or Hide as a Bonus Action on their turn. Blackened leather, caked with dried mud. Grant advantage on Athletics or Acrobatics checks to keep footing on rock, and wearer does not suffer movement penalties from rocky terrain. Wearer gains a climb speed on rock equal to their normal movement. Tough leather, scuffed and covered with underbrush. Grant advantage on Athletics checks to climb plants. Wearer may use adjacent tree branches to move at full speed as long as they begin and end their movement on branches able to support their weight."

Dungeon Name,Dungeon Type,Description

What's in this place that reeks of death?,"Your footsteps echo loudly as you climb down the stone staircase into the silent dark. In the flickering torchlight, you see a stone sarcophagus at the far end of the chamber. Is the lid open? Suddenly, there is movement to your left..."," A tomb can be distinctive by the art and architecture of its builders, the fame or notoriety of the person interred therein, the strange things that happen to those who venture within, the rumors of treasure that may be stored inside, and the unintended denizens. Every tomb tells the store of someone's life and death, but ancient and haunted tombs likely tell many stories... I'll post a few examples."
Pine Hill,Mass grave," There are no trees on Pine Hill. Indeed, there's not much hill, either; it's really more of a broad, grassy mound of soft earth. Should you find a particularly soft patch, however, you might find out exactly what it was made for. Under the thick layer of sod is a series of tunnels and warrens, dedicated to one purpose: the storage of thousands of bodies. The muddy wooden floor is actually the lids of innumerable, unmarked pine coffins, stacks of which form the walls as well. Tales from those few who have managed to crawl out of the maze of pine boxes tell that while many of those buried are nameless, faceless, and buried with nothing, a few bear the marks--and trappings--of great wealth. Careful with that axe, though... you never know when Pine Hill will chop back."
Pine Ash Pond,Ash Marsh, The site of a previous mass burial site that was filled with pine coffins. A group of reckless adventurers caused a fire to run rampant on the burial site rousing some of the dead. Now Pine Ash Pond is a marsh swarming with ash caked scampering skeletons.
Anumir’s Slumber,Forest Tomb," A small cave, its entrance choked with vines, is the final resting place of Anumir the druid. In life the he protected the forest and all of its creatures, in death the favor is returned."
Celerik’s Folly,Stronghold Turned Tomb?," The stronghold’s walls were thick; the spells were all in place, none could enter or leave. Celerik and his followers would survive the coming apocalypse and their descendants would emerge to repopulate when the spells fell and lands were once more inhabitable. The prophecies never came to pass, centuries have gone by and the spells have fallen, yet none emerge…"
The Mausoleum of Karak Jabbal,Desert Tomb," Beyond the Red Sand Waste in the shadows of the Diamond Mountains is the magnificent mausoleum of the ancient prince Karak Jabbal. An adherent of the Way of Light, Prince Karak built his monument on a promontory that receives a cleansing bath of sunlight every dawn as was the prince's custom. The prince did not plan for the powerful curse placed upon this place. Every afternoon, when the sun dips below the mountains, the dead walk about this place. The corpses of workers who perished in the monument's construction were buried in the sand near the foundations, and they are not welcoming to visitors."
Great Burial Mound,Primitive Burial Site," One of the oldest known tombs in the world appears as little more than a small hillock on the river's floodplain. Many travelers have mistaken the burial mound for a hill, on which they can keep watch in the night. What they have not planned for are the wights that emerge from the mound in the wee hours who attempt to drag any above below into their dark tunnels. On a stormy night, the tunnels are especially treacherous as the river is likely to swell its banks and drown any living things unfortunate enough to be inside the mound."
The Tomb of St. Anglos,Urban Tomb," Beneath the cathedral is the resting place of the legendary knight St. Anglos who slew the sea dragon Karadaxos, paving the way for the village at the river's mouth to become the thriving center of trade that it is today. The tomb has been sealed off to most pilgrims for two decades, but wealthy merchant families still do homage to St. Anglos's bones on nights when the moon is new. Rumors suggest that the wealthy citizens who visit the tomb are part of an offshoot death cult of the Sea Queen, but those are just rumors, right?"
Jack's Rest,was," In the quaint town of Derrin-upon-Smarn they take pride in their yearly celebrations of All-God's-Eve, a time to joke about demons, make decorations and generally make fun of all the enemies that the God's have acquired in their long existences. Each autumn the townsfolk have a competition to see who can grow the largest pumpkin, gorging on pumpkin and pumpkin related treats. When they are done they pile the pumpkins and jack-o-lanterns in a valley to the west of town. All is well with this lovely little town and its lovely little tradition. One year a young lad named Jacob decided that his jack-o-lantern, although it wasn't particularly large, would at least be on the top of the pumpkin pile! He climbed to the top as the rest of the village watched, cheering him on. He placed his pumpkin on the peak of the pyramid, had one joyous moment and then-! Disaster. The pyramid fell and crushed Jacob to death in front of his young friends, his family and the entire village. The body was never recovered. They stopped the ritual for a while, but as the years passed they started to do it again. It has taken on a sombre tone. The woods and the farmland around the pyramid has started to change. The trees never grow leaves. Ravens roost there year round. And this year... This year young children have started to disappear. Each time a child vanishes a pumpkin appears beside the pyramid, complete with a lit candle behind a jaunty face. Some say they've seen a hole in the pile of ancient vegetable matter - a hole large enough for someone to go inside. To go and see where Jack rests."
Echo Hall,An ancient church library," A church famous for helping wayward women deal with the sin of giving birth. A woman, filled with dread and prone to the vapours, who left her child on a shelf, without swaddling clothe or comfort. She ran away, and the child was not found until the next day, when it was too late. Since then the children brought to the church sometimes fall mysteriously ill and die. Each time one dies the Hall changes slightly. Noises are heard. Things move. It is unnaturally cold - the chill of being naked and alone in a strange new world. Mutters and Echoes. Footsteps, voices and the shuffling sound of someone leafing through the pages of a book. All of these things Echo backwards and forwards, a dozen times at least, sometimes growing quieter, but just as often getting louder with each rebound."
The Temple of Itet,Desert Ziggurat," This ancient ziggurat lies deep in the bone-littered desert known as the Vale of Vultures. Its exterior has been ravaged by wind and time, but its interior is as beautiful as ever: exquisite sculptures of long-dead sultans, enormous murals of exotic gods painted in black and gold, and columns so tall their upper reaches disappear into shadow. The Temple was originally intended to house the mummified bodies of the Sultans of the Vale, but after humans abandoned the Vale, a tribe of black jackalweres reclaimed the Temple for their God-to-Be, Itet. Once an ordinary jackalwere, Itet fell in love with a werewolf named Naatha, a notorious murderer and priestess of the Fellowship of Demise, which worships all gods of death regardless of alignment. Naatha rejected Itet's love, claiming she loved only death. Itet vowed to become a god of death and kill all others, making him synonymous with Death and thus the object of Naatha's love. Though not a god yet, Itet has already transcended his mortality, attaining a form similar to that of a wraith. He dwells on the highest floor of his Temple, guarded by jackalweres, specters, and mummies. Itet wears a tattered black robe over the gold-bejeweled attire of a pharaoh and wields a stylized scythe."
The Mollusks Last Rest,Dead Giant Snail," Millions of years ago, a titanic snail searched the seabed for food, but as a living being it died and washed ashore. The coast smells bad around these parts and the ground is soft. A low pitched howling can be heard at all times. It becomes stronger with the storms as gusts of air fly through the windings of a broken shell. The smell of rotting fish and algae fills the mist around those daring to enter the corridors, fragile and riddled with holes. Some mad fisherman told me that the center was made out of pure pearl, but why should I believe him? The other day he said that the dead fish inside were walking too. What a silly old man."
The Salted Fields,Air Burial Ground," Since anyone can remember, the mountain tribes have laid their dead on this plateau to be eaten. The ground is littered with bones and their fragments, most of them gnawed clean and broken to get that delicious marrow. Vultures and flocks of smaller birds can be seen circling above during day, but during the night, the feast begins. Lately there have been human screams during the birds' meals, it appears that not only the dead are brought here."
The Groundhog Stone,Primitive Death Cult Tomb," The Groundhog Stone is a monolith sitting on top of a cliffside that, when seen from the valley below, looks vaguely like a Groundhog. Beneath it are tunnels, dug straight through dirt and rocks with no struts. Many have entered, the few who came back were... different. Below the maze, riddled with the animated bodies of those who got lost, lies the hall of the late Groundhog King. Every night him and his subordinates hold the same feast, which they had on their last day. They will invite any adventurer who arrives to join them. It is a firework of gluttony, debauchery and lust, culminating in a shamanic ritual. Every man and woman is given a mug of poison which kills them, but raises them the next day to keep feasting."
Pilgrim's Shelter,Small Mountain Hut," Less and less people have taken the pilgrimage these days, too many didn't return. The hut lies a days climb from the holy mountain's icy peak, just below the tree line. There is a natural well with clear water and a reserve of firewood for the cold nights. A dense pine forest encroaches on the small clearing, and by night you can hear otherworldly howling outside. Behind the hut lies a small field with clean cut grass. A few dozen unhewn flat rocks are spread out on it, memories of those who did not make it, freezing in the ground. Back in the day, groups of pilgrims would spend their night in front of a flickering stove and prepare for the final sprint. They say a warm fire inside will lure the pilgrims. Even the dead ones."
Professor Scatty's Lab,A Door in the Academy's Basement," Nobody has been in these cellars for ages. The old tracts had been sealed after a few too many experiments with the wrong kinds of magic, and the renovated west wing proved much more comfortable than the lightless hallways beneath it. At the end of one of those corridors, a rune of protection is etched into a rotting door. The walls behind it are lined with flasks, jars, and alchemistic tools. Most of the flasks contain a dead creature or a miniature golem. One of the cabinets emits a faint glow, the ghostly inhabitants are screaming and banging angainst the walls of their prisons. In front of it lies the mangled corpse of the Professor, and a shattered bottle."
The Forsaken Throne,The Catacombs Of A Palace," Disappearing children are nothing new in the capital. Most of them weren't even noticed. Orphans and beggars, abducted in the night by people in dark robes, never to be seen again. They take them towards the hill that the palace was built on, but none reach the gates. They disappear in sewers and tunnels, into the shadows. Ages ago, the palace was not on a hill. It was in the middle of the city, its golden minarets glowing from the fire around it. The Lich had broken the eastern gate and his skeletal hordes were torching every house in sight, when a magic blast from inside the palace turned the building into rubble, and all undead fell to the ground like puppets. Since then no necromancer has touched the city. The ones who tried saw their undead minions return to their lifeless form before they could even reach the city gates. The new palace was built on the rubble of the previous one. Soon, people forgot about the old keep under the hill, and what may still be inside. It is a throne room. Desecrated by bloody runes and ancient rituals, where thousands of children were gutted to feed their souls to the king. The old king is still sitting where he last sat down, when the gate fell hundreds of years ago. Harnessing the magic of his seat, protecting his city, but at what cost?"
Hells Kitchen,A Seemingly Regular Graveyard," The Graveyard started smelling after the last flood. Bodies were flushed out of their supposedly final resting place, some of them scattering all over the place. The smell has gotten worse lately, burnt flesh mixing with the unmistakable odour of decay. Some blame it on the lazy undertaker, who doesn't properly burn the bodies. Others however savour it and flock to the crematory for a midnight snack."
Smugglers Rest,Multiple Shipwrecks," Rounding the this hazardous point you come upon the welcoming and calm waters of Smugglers Rest. This deceptively calm natural harbor is filled with sharp hidden reefs, and notoriously aggressive sharks. Near to shore sits a pile of ships smashed against one cliff face. There are also numerous wrecks sitting on the bottom. Many of them are connected by rotting rope bridges and gangplanks. The long abandoned crews have been driven mad by the isolation and hunger. They will now eat anything or anyone they come across."
The Tomb of Sergi Blackshield,Urban tomb," Deep inside the sprawling City of the Dead lies the tomb of the noted warrior Sergi Blackshield, who held Blackshield Pass against an ork horde for two days and two nights. He was buried with his ancestors and his coffin surrounded with the Black Roses of Mourning that grow in darkness, and hundreds of mourners followed the funeral procession into the graveyard. Sadly, the Blackshield line died out many generations ago, and now his tomb is crumbling, dusty and choked with fallen rubble. But the grave keeper has heard strange noises from inside and has found booted footprints near the tomb. Who would go there- what lies within?"
Dungeon of Scarlet Rot,Hidden Necropolis / Lich's Lair, Hidden below the surface of the earth where the town of Wyrmsfall stands is a menacing secret. When Scarlet was plagued by visions and nightmares of unnamable creatures from the Far Realms the town laughed it off. But Scarlet became obsessed with stopping the events she saw from happening. Craving more and more knowledge about the Far Realms and those events she pushed the limits of her arcane abilities. Scarlet sealed herself away preforming the rites needed to achieve Lichhood until she could prevent the events she saw that usher the end of the world. Namely those adventurers from ever finding the tome of the yellow king.
The Lich's Study,Mountain Laboratory," Long ago, in the south where the forest meets the mountains, a Lich ruled. He was slain, his phylactery destroyed, by an Elf lord and his knights. However, few beings are willing to touch or investigate the works of the necromancer and so his haunts are scattered across the mountains. The relics of amazing power, the gruesome experiments, and the concocted horrors still reside there and torment those who dare venture near them. The most common of the Lich's residences are the laboratories where it would experiment upon the bodies of the living and dead. Tombs lie here, many still containing countless deceased and other things ready for experimentation, undisturbed since he was destroyed."
The Tomb of Lunacy,"Tomb with multiple split, converging, and dead end paths"," As PCs explore the hallways, no matter what direction they choose to try to take, they always take the path the monster in the middle desires them to. They're convinced it's the path they chose themselves. Each player needs to make a DC20 WIS save to break the effect, and anyone still under the effect won't believe anyone trying to tell them what's happening, convinced they're the ones that are confused. Path monster has them take is riddled with traps. Any lasting effect ends when the monster is defeated."
Vittesno's Rest,Forest Burial Site," An enchanted glass coffin of a lost princess in a peaceful grove of the forest. Inspecting the coffin reveals it is easy to remove, revealing a burrow beneath. Within are the emaciated corpses of nine gnomes, seemingly trapped in the burrow since the coffin blocked their exit. The air is moist and warm, and a rotten, half bitten apple eerily glows at the end of the table, and is extremely cold to the touch. The presence of the wasted gnomes can still be felt, and wailing seems to echo from the sub-basement door."
The Iron Glade,Former Battlesite," A few miles directly south of Volandar, in amongst a copse of trees and terrain that heavily favors south facing soldiers, is, what appears to be small abandoned town, no more than a few miles across, with buildings mostly in tact, the ravages of time have taken their toll upon this place though. Upon closer inspection one notices amongst the the thick bladed, long grass and reams of varied flora, are weapons, hundreds upon thousands of weapons of all kinds and colours dug into the ground. Underneath these weapons are rotted suits of armour and corpses, as the town reaches it's centre the corpses stop being a singular horrifying occurence and become a surface all of their own, bodies of men women and children rotted away and burying one another, all facing the plaza, swords, axes, repurposed farming implements all in hands driving into the ground. At the central fountain is a singular body on it's own, the sickeningly reddened water bathing it in blood, with a gold hilted sword thrust through it's head."
The Penitence,Execution Ship," Charred black and barely hanging together The Penitence lists among the open seas, the last great purge of Eastern Seapath, pirates by the scores rounded up by the score and chained to the hull, inside and out, by the hands and feet and cast out into sea with a barrel of oil and a lit candle. All the rigging is constructed from thick built chain and drape almost every inch of the ships surface and interior hull, the bodies of those captured chained in place from so many points they sit motionless even amongst the rocking waves like listless flies in a spiderweb. The only moving man is a figure so strapped in encassed it is impossible to make out chained to the iron wheel of the ship."
Findol's Leap,Forest Tomb," Deep in the forest where the wild elves roam, below the crag known as God Finger lies the tree-lined tomb of Findol the Brave, hero of the elves of light in their war against the elves of dark. A accomplished wizard and warrior, Findol led his people upon the rocky spur of the God Finger as a last resort when the huge host of dark elves and their slaves set upon them. Giving a last salute to his people, he leapt from the crag some hundreds of feet to the waiting army below using his own life force to weave a spell that turned all not upon the crag into trees. In an instant, the conquering army became pine, maple, elm, and oak with the impenetrable heart of them being the place where Findol's body made contact with the ground. To this day, thousands of years later, the elves honor and cherish his grave, visiting death upon any elf who dares enter the surrounding forest. Still, adventurer's sometimes try to pass the elves by stealth or magic to enter the open air grave of Findol for it is said he took to his death a number of fantastically powerful magic items."
"The Catacombs of Mentis ""The Silent""",Urban Catacombs," During his reign, Emperor Mentis built a lavish palace from which he ruled for nearly five decades. Over the years, he became increasingly paranoid of foreign intruders and his own subjects alike. He spoke to no one and even went as far as to forbidding any noise inside the walls of his palace. Those who disobeyed this law payed a heavy price. He then ordered the construction of a large maze of walls around his home to confuse his enemies. The walls, big enough to permanently house his armies and their families, were no match for the volcanic eruption that happened years later. Everything was engulfed in ash and soot, transforming the impenetrable fortress into a mass grave. A new city was built over the old, but legend has it, many of these walls are still intact just below the surface, creating a maze of catacombs. Some may even lead to the buried palace, where the Emperor himself supposedly still remains. Anyone who dare enter these tunnels be wary as to not disturb the eerie silence, for even in death, his word is still law. Edit: Some clarification"
Foechuckle's Tomb,The grave of a famous bard and his consorts," The Halfling, Zaneak Foechuckle was a well-known fighter and bard, much loved throughout the land. Tales of his musical battle with an Archfiend, his victory of wits over the Dragon of the Mountains, and his wooing of no less than a thousand princesses are told in all the realms. When he finally died, it was a great day of mourning in the realm. A tomb had been prepared for him and he was laid to rest among his gathered treasures. At first it was visited by pilgrims seeking to honor their hero, but in recent years its been avoided. Around fires people speak softly of a woman in black who creeps along the tomb's halls. Some say she is a jilted lover, refused burial with Zaneak and his wives. Others say she is the Archfiend Zaneak trapped years ago, attempting to trick a wanderer into giving it its freedom. Whatever the case, her screams are said to be heard reverberating from the tomb late at night striking fear into some, and striking others dead."
Sepulcher of the Unknown Warriors,Desert Barrow," Beneath the largest dune of the Scarred Expanse, lies the organized remains of a unknown number of soldiers. Their mummified remains have been cared for and organized by the nation and heraldry they bore in life. Each of the countless bodies stand in small recesses at attention presenting their arms and armor as if awaiting command. Scholars puzzle over the nations represented by the bodies as they match none in the current catalog of heraldry. Some theorize that this barrow has existed in some distant previous age that is lost to modern recollection. Expeditions into the barrow have encountered resistance by unseen forces who ask politely at first for intruders to leave. Should the requests be denied manifestations begin to plague the explorers as torches go out, water-skins burst, and other anomalous happenings befall the explorers. If those manifestations fail to drive the intruders out then horrifying manifestations of spectral beings swarm the explorers ending their lives. Subsequent expeditions have found the bodies of those lost explorers be cared for just as the other bodies with seemingly random equipment given to them. The network of tunnels have never been fully mapped as it appears the tunnels beneath the barrow shift. Prior maps made of the barrow appear inaccurate in later explorations of the barrow leading some to hypothesize the entire structure moves itself periodically beneath the sands."
Marsh of Ran'dee,Wetland," The Marsh of Ran'dee is known for the extremely tall reeds that border its waters. Strong winds brush over the tops of these reeds, simulating various howling noises that mimic a human in pain. Traces of ectoplasm can also be found around the grasses, leaving many to believe the marsh is haunted. The ecology of the marsh is somewhat of a mystery. Almost all of the research has been lifted from personal records of various individuals and is difficult to verify. Locals deem Ran'dee too unnerving to study. However, there have been multiple reports of disappearing and reappearing roosters. The marsh was discovered by a low-level hunter named Falcorn. Unfortunately, not much is known about the individual. Lore has it, the hunter enjoyed the marsh as an escape from his mundane life. Supposedly, you would often find him alone, monologuing to himself, while consuming copious amounts of alcohol."
The Warlord's Rest,The single most protected building in the world," The Warlord, centuries ago, almost conquered the world. If not for a coalition of all the races he would have succeeded. When crafting the tomb they came together once more. Protected it with strong wards, top level craftsmanship and art on the walls, depicting each of his conquests so no one would ever awaken him. Undead were set to guard the tomb so no one could reach him, it is protected by the best every race could offer. At the the bottom lays his corpse. It must never be awoken."
The Deep,"Open concept, theme each floor separately based on your needs"," Spanning an unknown number of floors this crypt is quite unique. One hundred years ago the entrance surfaced and a dead man walked out, proclaimed any who reached the bottom would inherit his kingdom. Since then tens of thousands have died making the attempt. There is a market on the topmost floors, almost an entire thriving economy as adventurers make ever more dangerous treks through the halls once littered with gold. Each floor is almost a magical realm in and of itself, untold in size, monsters repopulate frequently, however gold does not. there are as yet unknown shortcuts through the tomb that may still contain dangerous traps and riches, but they remain to be found."
The Keep of Mel'Shon,"Crumbling fortress of an extinct race of giants, filled with giant skeletons"," ""It is a fortress"", the old man said. ""An ancient Keep manned by the dead. An evil lurks in that place that I have never known before."" Mel'Shon was the last line of defense for the extinct goliath kingdom of Melmora. The blood splattered on the gigantic, crumbling walls of the fortress tells a gory tale. A tale of war, of struggle, and of death. The keep, however, is very much alive. The skeletons within still cling to the thin strands of memory they have left. They can be heard doing the menial tasks of their life throughout the keep. A hammer repeatedly strikes an anvil; The sound of dishes rattle in a basin; an undead choir chants a chorus for a long-dead god; a creaking wheel turns ever slowly. And Golgoth, The Goliath King sits on his throne and waits. But where skeletons walk, a Necromancer hides in the shadows, pulling the strings like a dark puppetmaster."
The Illusionist's Crypt,Ancient Crypt of Dark Elf Illusionist Master," Before the Drow forsaked their elven brethren and withdrew into the Underdark, there were the Dark Elves. A grand race of people unparalleled in the arcane arts. One such Elf was an Illusionist, a grandmaster of the craft. Over a thousand years ago, Before he died, he built a tomb for himself, his family and all of his most precious posessions. Many powerful magical arifacts rest in the tomb with him but very few have what it takes to pry them from his resting place. In fact, many have died trying. The Illusionist's Tools are too powerful for most to wield safely so he devised a series of traps, riddles, and puzzles so only the most dedicated and worthy adventurer could come to have them. A guantlet. A true challenge no adventurer could ignore. Seems simple enough. But beware; In the Illusionist's Crypt, Nothing is as it seems."
The Warden Stone,Single tomb," Amongst the flagstones near the gate of Algrought Castle, one stone rests an inch or so above the rest. Nicknamed the Warden Stone by the castle denizens, it is supposed to be the resting-place of the castle's first combat death. The reality is far more disturbing: the watchman was snuck upon from inside the castle, killed, dismembered, and butchered. What the madman who slew him did not eat, he buried beneath the flagstone, at the spot where the brave man had stood hours earlier."
Cearabour Bog,Pit grave," Cearabour is the most treacherous bog in the kingdom. Only a somewhat-marked path crosses it, requiring the greatest caution and perception to avoid sinking into the mires. One spot in the bog harbors the crumbling remains of four brave knights, set upon by a jealous cousin and hurled singlehandedly into the muck. Though mail rusts and bone corrodes, their holy swords lie untouched in the still waters, forgotten."
The Hadian Bridge,Long-suffering causeway of pain," It has been many ages since the Fall of the Six. Their bodies, chopped up and pillaged by the Dark Lord, were put to use in maintaining the defense of his dark fortress. The conglomerated bones of the Six formed some of the base structures of the bridge to the fortress's main gate. Legend says that the non-structural bones had a worse fate: They were corrupted by the dark arts and fused into a horror of bone and rage, to guard their master's crossing forevermore."
Moorhallow Cairn,Barrow," North of the sleepy village of Moorhallow lies one of the largest barrowlands ever made. Travel even further north of these barrows and you will find the ruins of a great city in the shadow of the mountain. The name whispered through the centuries of this lost city goes by Cirn Delwaith. It is rumored in the barrows of this lost city rest the greatest of all barrows only known as The Moorhallow Cairn. 5 Lords of the city are interred in this above ground barrow. They were not dead when they were sealed in the tomb but trapped as a punishment for their ancient misdeeds. Some adventurous travelers say that you can still hear pounding on the inside of the stone seal, even after the many centuries."
Summer's Rest,Monument," The Auden Wood languishes in autumnal twilight, buried under heaps of desiccated leaves, some of which still cling to the gnarled branches of grand old oaks and twisted silver birches. Ominous shadows seem to gather in the deep parts of the forest, and when the day's light begins to fade, those unwise enough to linger in the Wood return with stories of an edifice of wrought iron and dark stone that lingers in the periphery of their vision. Some perceive it as a portent of what's to come; to others, an artefact of something that occurred long ago. But all agree that the dark obelisk marks the place where bright and bountiful Summer came - and/or will come - to die."
The Glade of the Dreamless Sleep,"Forest, undeath"," Among a sea of exceptionally tall trees among a soft bed of decades worth of pine needles and leaves, a dense fog seeps near-constantly. Everywhere around, figures lay propped against the base of almost every single tree trunk. The figures each appear as if they are in a deep and comfortable sleep, but there is no pulse and strangely, no decay. This is especially odd considering a few of the bodies wear outfits and ornaments that have long since passed being fashionable, centuries ago. The longer anyone stays in this foggy area, the more and more lethargic and sleepy they become. Beware the Dreamless Sleep."
Irrions Composition,old Concert Hall in an abandoned town," Irrion Hallfindel was a bard, famous throughout the land, his compositions were played in every hall and palace throughout the world. One night, he was visited by what seemed a friendly Djin. The Djin offered him an instrument with which he could make even the mountains weep or rejoice. Irrion gladly accepted and took the Instrument, a beautifully decorated Violin. His venue, the once Cathedral turned Concert Hall was packed with people and full of exited cheer. Irrion presented his Violin and went to play a composition which streamed into his hands as he played, called the Risum Mortem. The composition was a moving and very emotional one, but it was much more.... As he played the old bones buried beneath the church started to stirr, the decomposing bodies of those long dead arose to the surface. The guests found themselves unable to move, overcome by the music. In the end, the entire Hall went to ruin, unable to be cleared of the Bards Dreaded Song..... Some say the Bard is still playing, others say he died long ago. Maybe its just a story, who knows?"
Where does this treasure map lead?,"You drop down onto the sand, salt-rimed boots quickly sinking into the soft grains. Before you is a cave, barely above sea level, even with the low tide. You lean in close, holding the candle as close to the map as you dare. Sure enough, here it is..."," Since we're hip-deep in the mire that is the underworld, and since our last event gave us a veritable hoard of ocean-related loot, it's only fair that we find some places to put it. We're looking for deserted island caves filled with slick, treacherous rock and pirate gold, underwater temples of the kuo-toa, or even the lair of the elusive Leviathan itself. If it's dark, dank, and filled with treasure, this is where you put it. These dungeons don't have to be completely fleshed-out, but make sure you provide a fairly decent picture of what the dungeon is and who's living in it. Two or three sentences should be pretty solid. I'll provide some examples. Now..."
Ship of Reverberating Memories,Underwater Ship Wreckage," This wreckage of an old trade vessel is surrounded by aquatic wildlife. Touching any part of the ship causes the surrounding water to spin as a turbulent vortex and ""spit"" the players out onto the now-sailing ship where a surprised & lively crew stand stunned. The players have been transported to the past and must experience the final hours of the ship, captain and crew."
Grotto of the Ocean King,Ancient Sunken Temple," This temple lies below the waves, as an eternal symbol of the fallen Ocean King. He failed to take proper reverence to the gods of the sea, some say he attempted to take their place, and they grew angry with him. No one knows what currently inhabits the temple as it has laid beneath the waves for centuries."
Sunshine Island,Ocean locked penal colony," A barge the size of a mid sized island this floating fortress is home to exactly two types of people. The worst criminals the seafaring kingdom has to offer and the people paid large amounts of coin to watch them. The ship contains a treasure trove of goods confiscated after the scoundrels were incarcerated, much was smuggled in within bags of holding making this penal colony a treasure trove for would be pirates and less noble adventurers alike."
The Forbidden Ocean,Uncharted Territory," A quarter of the worlds largest ocean remains entirely unmapped due to constant storms. Islands abound and sometimes can be seen at a distance however only one man has ever managed to sail the ocean safely. He claims all you need to do is follow a certain path and you will get past the storms and into the calm waters around the island chains, but his chart is long lost with him and no one else dares to venture in."
Goldwater Grotto,Limestone caverns," Far to the east, on an island shrouded in mists, lies Goldwater Grotto. A series of awe-inspiring caverns hidden away beneath the island, the Grotto is both famous and infamous among the few sailors and privateers who know of its location, for one reason: the pool of water that sits at the very bottom of the caves. The water is immaculately clear, and incredibly still--so still, in fact, that you can see the mountains of treasure that lie on the bottom of the pool, many many meters down. The pool attracts treasure seekers, thieves, and brigands from miles around, none of whom is too keen on someone else getting to the loot first..."
Whitecliff Keep,Ruined coastal fortress," Whitecliff Keep was built some hundreds of years ago as both a lighthouse and a forward defensive outpost for the ancient kingdom that built it. Unfortunately, the eponymous white cliffs it was built on were not simply decorative; they are composed of soft, erosion-prone chalk. Centuries of high tides and typhoons have crumbled the cliffside, and now only about half of the original Keep is still standing. This has not stopped a collective of merrow from inhabiting the ruins and using it as a vantage point to spot unsuspecting merchant vessels for attack..."
The Maw of the Sea,Deep sea prison," Only the oldest and darkest of merfolk tales tell of the Maw of the Sea. In the time before time, a great and terrible beast roamed the oceans, consuming all life and causing horrific storms and tsunamis. It took divine intervention to catch the creature and lock it away in the deepest, most lightless part of the ocean. Not a soul who has attempted to delve that deeply has returned to tell of it, but those who venture close have told of the deep, shrieking song that emanates from the trenches beneath the sea..."
Moon Point,Blowhole/Caves," The stone at Moon Point jutts out into the sea - a low shelf battered by the ocean waves at it's edges. The Point is lined with narrow crevasses carved out by the sea, with a large blowhole in the rock, which explodes with frothy water whenever the waves slam against the cliff-face. The blow hole was little more than a local curiousity (especially due to the eerie whistling and moaning of the water as it is forced out of the rock) until one day it began spitting coins and treasures along with sea-foam and water. But for years people have scoured the point looking for an entrance to any cave or any other way to retrieve the treasure without any luck. Because the blowhole itself is deadly - waves pummel anyone who enters it or suck them deep out to sea, and there is not enough time between the waves to really see what lies in the blowhole or at the seacave where the waves force their entrance, even on a calm day. If there was a way to somehow to stop the water or cut through the stone, then it would be possible to discover the caves that have deeply undercut Moon Point, and that the eerie noises from the blowhole are not merely the sounds of water forced through stone, but the howls of the drowned long pushed between the rock into the waterlogged caves."
Albatross Island,Man-made Floating Island/Beached Hideout," A ramshackle assemblage of beached ships, floating barrels, and rope bridges, and a single ancient coconut tree, Albatross island is the hideout of the fearsome pirate Drake Stone. Sitting upon a sandbar, the entire place (minus the coconut tree) can be towed out to sea and moved to a new location. Part prison and part treasure hoard, Captain Stone leaves a skeleton crew of loyal undead servants and a host of booby traps to guard his treasure. Rumor has it that the skeletons even head out on fishing expeditions to feed and train a pack of reef sharks to terrorize anyone attempting to wade or swim from the beach out to the Island."
Mount Cinderfall,Volcanic Island Lair," The leeward side of this volcanic island, the lush vegetation betrays the desolation. Plumes of smoke rising from the cone-shaped mountain that dominates the island are an ominous warning for the peril that waits within. Mount Cinderfall is home to the sea dragon Ghrazaxos who terrorizes the inhabitants of the neighboring islands and passing ships alike. A pool of molten gold plundered from passing ships is rumored to lie at the heart of Ghrazaxos's fiery lair."
Golden Temple of the Storm Dragon,Shadowy Island Ruin," Long ago, the this island was home to a thriving shadowfolk town that grew fruit, rice, and fished the sea. The town's centerpiece was a sprawling temple complex of interconnected stone pagodas dedicated to the Dragon Gods with the largest pagoda a shrine to the mightiest of them all, the Storm Dragon. Beneath the Storm Dragon's pagoda the priests performed profane rites by encasing sacrificial victims, both human and animal in molten gold. Stories tell of a cataclysmic storm that covered the whole island in hundred foot waves and battered down the fruit trees and the thatched roofs with unmatched winds—as if the Storm Dragon itself had grown angry and meant to make an example of the place. The lower levels of the temple complex are flooded, ghosts and fish are all that remain to inhabit the island, as the shadowfolk claim no one has ever returned who attempted to plumb the temple for its massive stores of gold."
Flotsam,Floating debris/Shipwreck," Above the surface, Flotsam appears to be merely a thick tangle of seaweed, barnacle-covered boards and dried palm fronds that have matted together so thickly a few people could stand on the bobbing surface. But under Flotsam's shadow, even larger debris is drifting in the depths. This includes part of the prow of the ship ""Aleandis"". The figurehead - a squid-headed woman - is said to contain a valuable treasure. But to retrieve the treasure, you must brave not only the water and any creatures that live within it, but the threat of being tangled in the floating ropes or crushed by the shifting bulk of the wreck."
Coral Claw,Reef," Coral Claw has claimed many lives, but has also claimed many treasures. This reef is difficult to approach, but the coral breaches the surface at low tide, briefly revealing encrusted shipwrecks and coins scattered among the sand. The oldest and most valuable treasures have been overgrown by the coral or fallen into holes in the reef. But be sure to finish your fossicking before the tides return, bringing the true threat of Coral Claw with it. And even before the tide returns, watch out for knife-sharp coral and stonefish, and perhaps treasure-seekers will discover that the stories of giant crustaceans are not entirely fiction."
Pyramids,Sand Cliffs," The steep sand hills of Resarf Island are mainly covered in thick scrub, but where the hills meet the beach the sand has fallen away in stark white triangles. These white triangles can be seen far out to sea, and became known by navigators as the Pyramids. Up close, the steep sand seems almost vertical, but there are shelves of compacted sand, the occasional tree trunk and streaks of sand in colours from deep brown to orange. The cliffs can be climbed but they are treacherous - the sand can slip at any moment sending even experienced climbers tumbling. Perhaps this is why the pirate band choose to hide their treasure here, in plain sight? The most logical way to retrieve the treasure would be to tie ropes to the thin scrub at the top and slide back down the slopes, but the spears of the local tribes hiding in the scrub will make that difficult, and the large eagles who nest at it's peak will definitely not tolerate any intrusions."
Murkraw Keep,Sunken Castle," The ancient castle of an old tyrant, formerly located atop a seaside cliff. The coast being prone to terrifying storms, the castle was warded against all sorts of weather and flooding related damage. The old tyrant hoarded wealth from his subjects, and was rumored to practice dark magics deep into the keep. Some still believe he is alive in the castle, hundred and hundreds of years old, having found a way to haunt the coasts and cheat death."
The Bandit Rocks,Bandit Hideout," The wreckage of many a sailing vessel has been dashed upon these rocks on a stormy night, and some of the survivors and enterprising vagabonds have found use for the leftover driftwood and gored ships. Fraught with treacherous passes and wiley crooks, the rocks precariously balance driftwood walkways and makeshift cabins. Many of the riches from merchant vessel and pirate ships dashed upon these shores remain, and an there are many shipments that never arrived to their destinations that would fetch a pretty penny from interested parties."
Redemption Isle,Magical Isle," The occasional geyser off the small island of Yyrole is not an uncommon sight. Those who are vulnerable to gossip and superstition speculate that the geysers are caused by the Sea Lords wrath. However, those who are familiar with their history can recall the exploits of Linus Farswallow, an industrialist who a hundred years ago was hellbent on exploiting deep ocean resources. Farswallow poured his entire fortune into creating a fully mechanised mining complex miles below the ocean surface. The venture, dubbed ""sea world"" appeared to be a success when Linus unearthed a strange glowing ore with fantastic magical properties. Sadly, this success was short lived, as Linus disappeared under mysterious circumstances shortly after. Every sailor worth his salt has heard of Redemption Isle, many have even been saved by its mysterious ""lady"". It is said that if one finds themselves perilously lost at sea, they may pray to the ""Lady of the Isle"" for redemption. Those who then throw themselves into the sea, and therefore at the feet of the ""lady"", will awake naked upon the Isle's sandy shores. The only memory of the event left with the survivors is the image of a pale woman's face, and the knowledge of what the ""lady"" desires in exchange for their life."
Serpent's Spine,Island Chain," Sharp black peaks pierce through the ocean skyward in a winding ""S"" pattern for 60 miles. The largest islands are pockmarked with fissures and vent holes, periodically erupting with jets of steam and white smoke. The acrid odor of sulfur hangs in the air. It would be an excellent place to hide plundered loot, if you can get the timing right."
The Inkwell,Bottomless Pit," Three miles off the coast, amidst what seems like an endless reef of bright coral, lies a pitch black holes in the ocean floor. It measures 500 feet across, is near perfectly round and lies just 30 feet below the surface. While what investigation into The Inkwell has all but revealed it to be nothing more than an ominous hole, it has done nothing to quell the rumors of it being a dark portal to The Abyss, or the lair of an ancient leviathan."
Mr. Mizzen's Mercantile Manufactory,Abandoned Sweatshop," With crumbling coastal cliffs on one side, and fifteen-foot rotting ironwood fences on the other three, the derelict compound that houses the (now former) Mr. Mizzen production factories is all but inaccessible from the outside. Only one heavily rusted and locked iron gate (theoretically) opens to the West, and a rickety set of stairs carved into the cliffs rises from the remnants of the docks that barely cling to jagged upthrusts of rock in the churning water below. All other approaches are either choked with thorny brambles or made impassable by ditches filled with slick mud and sharpened stakes, but according to the locals, it's for the best. The defenses that have kept looters and adventurers out for almost fifteen years also serve to keep whatever lurks in the ruined factory in; during storms, they say, when the wind comes off the ocean, you can hear the screams and the howling hunger of the workers who were left shackled to the machinery when the Manufactory was abandoned."
The Viniferous Sanctum,Island Fortress," The Viniferous Sanctum is home to a wealthy order of evil monks. Behind their high stone walls and fortified cliff faces are extensive vineyards and labyrinthine cellars lined with thousands upon thousands of wine racks. If you're looking for fine wine you'd be hard-pressed to find any finer, just don't ask why so many of their customers seem to be vampires."
The City of Sails,Fleet of Boats," The City of Sails started out as a bountiful fishing spot over a coral reef. Over time, more and more boats dropped their anchors by the reef and some of the larger galleons eventually became a permanent fixture, using a fleet of much smaller boats to ferry goods back and forth from the reef and dry land. Eventually, the reef became host to a veritable city of several hundred large boats, anchored by several metal chains and connected by a vast array of tethers and retractable gangplanks. The fish market hasn't been the same since it became infested with living skeletons.***"
The Drowning Grove,Timed Maze," A dense ancient mangrove forest on a tidal floodplain. It is used by pirates and smugglers to hide treasures as well as sahuagin and bullywugs as a sheltered spawning ground. The only way to safely navigate through the tunnels of roots beneath the dense tangle is to have a map, or be able to breathe water. At low tide the tunnels are dry but when the tide comes in they rapidly fill with water drowning anyone unlucky enough to be trapped outside of one of the few areas above the floodline."
The Dead Isle,Hollowed Out Dormant Volcanic Island," While the volcano has been dormant for centuries, indigenous tribes hollowed it out for use as a holy shrine. However, in recent times the tribes have been widely exterminated by pirates who have made it their home. A number of ancient treasures and magical relics from generations of shipwrecks can be found in the twisting tunnels carved within the dormant volcano."
Abenheim Ruins,Montane rainforest ruins," Atop the mountain is a dozen damaged, empty homes, and a large temple barricaded by cultists. A long climb through the forest will bring you to this eerily quiet plaza. Local peasants hear the screeches of forest spirits from the ruins at night."
The Black pits of Gierland,Experimentation chambers," The red keep was originally made as a monestary of the red monks. The order was then wiped out by the more brutal red knight order, who then took control of the fortress. The red keep is easily distinguishable from other keeps and forts because of its glaring red walls, the walls are of a deep scarlet red, and glare with mystical energy, it is said that these walls have not been climbed in a hundred lifetimes. But untold reward is said to await for those who do, as the accumulated knowledge of both the red monks, and the red knight order is kept in the libraries of The Red Keep. But the knights of scarlet guard it fiercely. The fort is a large high-walled fort, made to protect the passage between Ferline, and Erguri. The walls are made from an unknown metallic substance, and they are said to be indestructible. Many a person (and/or creature) has tried to breach the walls of The Red Keep. But none has succeeded. The massive obsidian walls of Gierland protect the Black pits. Massive pits filled with horrors, and the instruments that created them. Once the home of an ancient evil, here he performed his twisted experiments and rituals upon the poor souls trapped there, malforming them into horrible creations of pure evil, now the fortress lies untouched by life, save for the creatures no longer under his control, who now roam the fortress. No one knows if these creatures have evil intent. For few dare enter, and those who do, do not return…"
Shoulder Keep,Ancient Stronghold," Shoulder Keep sits atop the Hag's Shoulder, a high hill overlooking the northwest end of the Howling Plains. According to legend, the black stones of the keep were summoned to the place by a powerful witch who was in the service of one of the ancient Kings of the Winnowers who lived on these plains when they were part of the First Empire of the East. Shoulder Keep occupies a commanding view of the plain, and its proximity to where the Great Road crosses the Spine made it an important position for protecting overland trade from raiders, before the road was broken. Currently, the keep is held by the Blood-Lion Tribe, a rugged band of orcs, half-orcs, and other mongrel-men who drive a great pack of wolves before them on frequent raids of the plainsfolk's farms and villages. The keep is a ruin, but a sturdy one for sure. The walls are thick, and the moat filled with sharp spikes has been recently repaired."
Salt Rock,Seaside Fortress," Towering about the Eddinton's harbor is the Salt Rock, the seat of House Carlock whose knights and ships have been protecting the town from Reavers for centuries. With white salt stains on grey granite walls, the Rock rises from Holgar's Point a steep promontory cliff some 200 feet in height that protects the harbor from the cold northern winds and waves. The Beacon Tower is the highest tower of Salt Rock, and it serves as both a watchtower and a functioning lighthouse. To descend from the castle to the harbor takes half a day, but signal fires and messenger pigeons keep the garrison and fleet apprised of any threats spotted from the castle above. Short of scaling the slippery cliffs of Holgar's Point, the narrow road up to the keep is the only way to reach it, making it impossible to take by force, but it has fallen by siege at least once. The Rock's dungeons are said to be connected to a vast series of underwater caves where some foul beast of the sea sleeps. It is whispered that the Carlocks keep the sea monster satisfied with meals of prisoners. No one who has ever left the Rock's dungeons alive has seen the caves or the monster, but those former prisoners all agree that the dungeons are cold and damp and that the sound of waves crashing on rock seems to rise up from somewhere inside the walls."
Braggard's Manse,Mayor's Estate," When the Free Wheel Mercantile swept the coast, they left in their wake a deep network of puppet governors, sympathetic burgomasters, and wealthy sellswords. The old aristocracy, unused to having their influence usurped, fought a losing war of charismatic attrition, and before long the balance of power began to tip toward the Mercantile and its allies. In a last bid to capture the hearts of the people - many of whom had suffered greatly during the various Mercantile blockades - the joint Dukes of Il Ipron formulated the first Braggard's Lottery, the winner of which would become Mayor for a year, neatly circumventing the existing elections. The lucky citizen would be given all the rights and duties of the post, as well as all the perks - namely, the Mayor's Mansion - and decent sum of money. The unpublicized downside was that these annual mayorships tended to be incredibly stressful, and were essentially tools used by the Dukes to enforce their will on the influential port town, and wreak their grievances on any who worked for the Mercantile."
Crumblekerk,Mountain Monastery," Carved into the unyielding stone of a monstrous oceanside cliff face, the home of the so-called 'climbing clerics' was designed to be a sanctuary for those who felt life on the outside just wasn't dangerous enough. Accessible only via a complex and borderline suicidal vertical descent from above, or just as dangerous navigation through hidden shoals and rough seas below, the monastery isn't for the faint of heart. Reaching it, however, is the only qualification for entry, and the allure of a life truly free of judgement is a potent lure for many a potential supplicant."
The Keep,Speakeasy," In the tumbledown tenements of Dogturn Slump, noticing things will get you killed - or worse. So it was no surprise that nobody noticed the late-night arrival of a dozen half-orcs; or the sudden, violent eviction of an entire building's residents. Nobody noticed with growing worry as the existing networks of clandestine thaumaturgy began to evaporate, and the fledgling illicit trade in dark fairy laudanum skyrocketed. Nobody, in a fit of misplaced civic pride, made a daring foray to the local constabulary, and nobody learned the hard way that they were in on it. And absolutely nobody knows the secret knock, handshake, and fee that'll get you into the old tenement cellars, where they definitely don't keep the good stuff."
Northforge Bastion,Dwarf Fortress," The mighty delvings of the Northforge Dwarves, carved into the living rock of the Greyghost Mountains. As the younger of the two dwarven kingdoms on the continent, its mines do not run as deep, but its position on the last front of the War of Conquest has given cause for extensive aboveground fortifications, including a moat of boiling volcanic spring water. The moat, combined with the bitter cold of the Greyghosts, usually results in Northforge being obscured by vast plumes of steam. Northforge was established during the days of the Dwarven Exodus, when Bjorik Breakhammer's ships were separated from those of his brother by an intense storm. Half of the dwarf fleet went south, and the other half went north, eventually leading to the establishment of two separate dwarven kingdoms. The Northforge Dwarves battled the cold and the snow, as well as the myriad barbarian tribes of the mountains, before finally stumbling upon a cave with edible flora and fauna. It was a difficult time, but those battle-hardened few that remained took their freedom from the indifferent chill of the Greyghosts."
Southforge Bastion,Dwarf Fortress," The older of the two dwarven kingdoms, and the more secretive. When Urik Breakhammer was separated from his brother, his fleet was washed up to the south, on a green and flourishing peninsula full of civilization. The locals offered the Dwarf-Prince-in-Exile membership in the Sholai Confederacy, as well as food and supplies for the establishment of their own kingdom. This assistance resulted in Southforge being much more quickly established, as a larger population survived to build their home. Southforge, thus, is far deeper, but with fewer surface defenses. This, of course, is even more true since the Latona Republic glassed the peninsula. The outer rock face of Southforge Bastion bears the telltale gloss of formerly molten stone that was blasted by the horrendous magicks of the Latona wizards. Following the horrific incident, Southforge has turned almost entirely inward, building deeper and deeper into the Glasspeak Mountains that house it."
Fort Underfell,Undead Redoubt," Fort Underfell, and the town of Crovan Fell surrounding it, was once the lynchpin holding civilization on the Roaring Plains together. The circular earthworks (later supported by a dwarven stone exterior) ringed in a wide, squat keep that housed most of the soldiers, and could potentially house just about all of the townspeople. When it fell in the War of Conquest, hundreds fled the destruction, followed by thousands more when they realized the Republic had no interest in garrisoning the blasted shell of the Fort. Its battered walls and shattered fortifications were silent. For a while. Now, Sir Throck, Knight of the Ashen Star, a death knight of the former Confederacy, has risen again to continue the war his people lost some seventy years ago. He and his risen soldiers are rebuilding Fort Underfell once more, and the dark shadows cast from the damned keep are beginning to reach up into civilized lands. It's only a matter of time before the Knight of the Ashen Star, armed with whatever unholy artifact lifted his armies from the dead, marches on the Republic-held cities of the continent."
The Palace of the Eternal Light,Ruined palace," The former residence of the recently deceased Eternal Empress. The Palace was destroyed when Tharizdun, the lord of Madness, murdered the Empress, and it is now home only to shadows and fiends. It is said that an angelic servant still stands guard over the Empress' private chambers, protecting her personal belongins from would-be looters."
Vaalstadt Keep,Newly-built Stronghold," Overlooking the colony in Vaalstadt, the Keep is home to the sickly Duke of Vaal, and his scheeming family. The Duke has yet to pay any taxes to his colonial overlord (If they want my gold, they'll have to come get it!), so his coffers are overflowing with gold and valuable gemstones."
The Temple of the Forgotten Ones,Ancient Temple," In the lush vale of Xi, where the Endless Desert meets the Transvaalian Jungle, stands an ancient temple, carved into the side of the mountains. The labyrinthine halls and corridors of the tample are loaded with insidious traps, deterring anyone who would dare to enter. With that much security, there's bound to be something valuable in the Inner Sanctum. Or maybe the traps are there to deter anyone from awakening the ancient evil that is imprisoned here."
Xil'han's Keep,Ruins," Xil'han's Keep is an ancient castle built in a marsh. Unsurprisingly, over time it started to sink in the unstable ground and is now roughly half sunken. It is said that Xil'han was a tiefling sorcerer, and that he hid his treasures and diaries in many vaults built in the basement of similar castles. The ruins are currently inhabitted by a large clan of bullywugs, led by king Co Co Croak. Most of the corridors have been destroyed over time, and the basement is flooded in most parts. The bullywugs have sealed the entrances to the basement because of strange creatures roaming down there. Some historians believe the keep was built in order to defend a long forgotten frontier of the tiefling empire. Some people disagree because who in their right mind would build a castle in a swamp?"
Gnomehome,Crystalline Fortress," The gnomes created this mighty fortress using their knowledge of gem magic. It is a huge 10 story building made entirely of purple crystal, and was designed at the back of the gnome capital for the gnomes to fall back to if their city was in danger of being lost. The crystal walls are quite strong, and can withstand the hardest rams, and the smoothness of the crystal gives invaders a hard time finding handholds for climbing the walls. But, to add to this, the gnomes laid special magics upon it, and whenever anyone hits the outer walls with something, vibrations will ring out causing damage to any creatures nearby."
K'ar-un-el Edge,Deserted Castle," Built by Rha'lal-za-kai Rha-zor over three centuries ago as the largest of a chain of fortified military outposts, defending his lush, many-rivered lowlands from the barbarous desert nomads to the North, K'ar-un-el Edge is a tall, broken, sandstone ruin, rising from the dunes that have consumed its sister castles. At the height of his dynasty's rule, Rha-zor's chain of majestic, towering castles was linked by a set of magic lenses, one in each of the highest towers. Mounted on greased gimbals, as each rotated it projected an image of what was happening in front of each of its sister lenses onto the scrying chamber's polished walls. By means of this magical communication and constant patrols between the castles, the kingdom was protected. At least that's what the legends say. These days, the rivers are distant memories and the land is baked dry. Reaching the distant legendary castle is a dangerous journey, and who knows what lies within its the sand-choked corridors and long-abandoned rooms..."
Samor's Camp,Ancient Fortified Mound," At one end of the Camphor Range is a huge and remarkably circular grassy mound with a winding chalk path cut spiralling up its side. The chalk is never far below the grass that covers the mound, and it shines in the right light, sun or moon. Atop the mound is a rudimentary fort surrounded by a huge circular ditch edged with ramparts and a viciously spiked stake-wall palisade. The combination of the mound's unnatrually steep incline, the depth of the ditch and the crude fortificaitons makes the exposed camp at the summit very difficult to take without great magic, flying mounts, or enormous siege machines. And the hill tribes haven't seen much of any of that in these uncivilized parts. Not in living memory at least. The origins of Samor's camp are lost in history. How the mound came to be so symmetrical and so steep is not known, though many will tell a story of Samor's blood pact with the long dead Lunic Druids and their use of a Great Wyrm to shape the land to their whim. The same stories unravel into wild speculation about the whereabouts of an entrance to Samor's barrow, the enormity of his house treasure grave goods, and the wicked ferocity of the Wyrm unwillingly bound to guard it's underground resting place for all eternity..."
Citadel of Ash,Volcanic Watchpost," The Citadel of Ash was constructed hundreds of years ago upon the ocean-facing slopes of a (somewhat) dormant volcano when the continent was united under a single empire. The purpose of this citadel was to watch the eastern sea for invaders that threatened this new empire, as the atoll that it calls home is the easternmost landmass of the continent. ""The Citadel of Ash"" began as mostly a nickname but it became so popular among the troops stationed there and the local population that its original name has been lost to time. When it was constructed, the citadel was made of a brilliant white stone. Within a small amount of years it was permanently blackened by the constant ash falling upon its walls and the name has stuck through the generations. To be stationed at the citadel was perhaps the worst assignment on the entire continent as the guards were likely far away from their families in populated cities and at risk to an early death due to the constant ash, steep slopes, and occasional catastrophic eruption; but hey the view is nice! While the atoll it resides on has remained well populated and prosperous, the population of the citadel has dwindled over the years even with new governments to own it. Once it became clear that threats from the eastern sea were likely never coming, the staffing began to dwindle down to a mere handful of men. In recent years it is all but abandoned, with but a few daring climbers and explorers willing to brave the soot-covered slopes to reach the citadel. Now tales are told of dangerous beasts and merciless criminals who occupy the citadel, rather than of ever vigilant brave men. But are these tales to be believed?"
The Dreamcatcher,Astral Observatory," Encompassing a perfect alabaster dome topped with a golden capstone stands a great wall, marked off at four corners with tall, elegant spires. There is no gate to the hidden chambers within. Deep inside the dome, it is said that the leaders of a cult gather to read the dreams of the world, ever staring out, never letting others see in. The cult's goals are mysterious, but townsfolk near the citadel sleep poorly, with twisted nightmares. The uninitiated who spend any time within the walls find themselves exhausted and slow, drifting slowly to an uneasy sleep. The dome travels, disappearing with the morning dew after a period of time, spending most of its time absorbing the other planes' dreams in the Astral Plane. In the perspective granted there, it becomes clear that the Dome is really the eye of a long dead deity of dreams and nightmares. Those who know this have tried to wrest the eye's power out of the cult's hands and use it for themselves."
Lookout Point,tourist trap," Lookout Point is a 7 story tower that stands atop a seaside cliff above Quintcyville, a quaint, seaside village. A generation ago, pirates were constantly raiding the up-and-coming trading port of Quintcyville, so the tower was constructed to defend the merchant fleets in the harbor and spot incoming raids on the town. Eventually, the pirates were defeated, but the town was decimated and most trade was routed through a rival port, leaving the local economy locked in recession. A kid named Tor started leading local kids up to tower to play pretend adventures against the long-gone pirates. When Tor was older, he expanded that practice taking wealthy nobles and their spoiled children for a thrilling taste of real adventure. Safe, but appealing to their vanity, they could claim to have done something noteworthy. Soon, the town's entire economy built around Tor's adventures, which was the invention of Torism. The town now features numerous overpriced inns, taverns, shows, and shops. The tower has a few harmless monsters and a few hidden surprises. Three weeks of each month, the Torist industry rakes in a fortune from the vanity of visiting nobles. But the week of the full moon, when the Pirates were most likely to attack, all the tower's magical defenses come alive...."
The Fort of Atlas,Mobile Fortress," The Fort of Atlas seems, initially, much like any of the others scattered across the sweeping plains of the Western lowlands. It takes a roughly rectangular shape, with a large multi-towered central superstructure rising from within forbidding, sloped walls. There is very little in the way of internal empty space, merely some relatively narrow walkways between walls and keep. The first inkling of the fortress's unusul nature might come from these; rather than being covered in grass, they are paved in the same wide dark-grey bricks as the rest of the structure. They seem just too wide for a single man to defend effectively, but awkward for two to fight side-by-side. But the men and women who inhabit here have no intention of doing any fighting themselves. Without warning, the structure trembles for a second, and then rises up before you, and begins to move. Now the defenders of this otherwise rather quiet keep become obvious; an army of golems, each half again the size of a man and with ten times the strength. Thus does the fortress appear to 'wander' across the landscape, borne upon the backs of unshakeably loyal servitude. So too do these golems serve as its defence in the castle's time of need - the numerous access points to the understory allow them to appear from any and every direction at once, quickly surprising and surrounding any attacker who thought to simply stroll in to the apparently empty grounds. These golems are also of course the main attractant for (some of the more foolish) invaders - to wrest command of such an army away from its current owners would drastically shift the balance of power, in the cut-throat military game of the lowlands."
Peregrine's Wrest,Mountaintop Monastery," Glory's sake, my grandda used to tell stories he'd heard when he were a boy about the folk visitin' the old monastery. Not as you'd find me climbin' up them crags to get there, even if there were a chance o' comin' back. And I ain't never seen nor heard tell of a single one comin' back down neither. Must be 400 years since it were built. At first, they say, the monks'd come to Roundwater to get their provisions, but not in hunnerds a years now. Ya can see it up there, just at the top o' the second spire, the one with the big tree on it. See? It's easier to see in the afternoon when the sun's goin' down over it. Just low stone buildin's with a single tower. Built up there by them monks I suppose. Then they just stopped comin' down. A load o' folk have gone up over the years, probly a hunnerd or so. Folk love a good mystery, and the rumors say there's a ton o' treasure of some sort that the monks was guardin'. Not to mention all the gear from them what have gone up after it. They usually buys their provisions here, have done for hunnerds o' years from me da and his da before 'im. Did I tell ye, ain't not a one o' them ever come back? It's a tenday climb to the top fer sure, and sometimes we see their fires or hear the screamin' on the breeze. But never a one comes back. Now, look at me talkin' yer ear off, when ye got a long wagon drive back to Silverheel. Listen, do me a favor, don't be a lettin' anyone know about the monastery, right? I mean, ain't nobody gonna never come back who climbs up them cliffs after that treasure. So don't be a stirrin' up nobody's imagination 'bout it. It's best to let sleepin' monks lie."
Glarog's Mound,Cuspidate Goblin Fortification," Unbroken plains for nearly 80 miles in any direction are marred by this low outcropping of angled stone, jutting from the earth, three massive spires stick out from a basalt stone base, each jutting up 15 feet. Earth piled up on the one side creates a rise partially shielded by the spires. Sharpened stakes were driven into the earth around the rock to protect it from... gods know what. Where the trees to make the wicked spikes came from, also a mystery. It appears to be no more than a crude goblin fort except for the black stony spires which glimmer in the sun and faintly crackle in the cold dark of the plains. Broken stakes here and there would grant admittance to this weakly fortified semi-structure. But the litter of bones at the base of the stone spires attests to its ability to defend its secrets."
Rynewood Keep,Vanguard Garrison," The Rynewood Barrier Forest is a maddening thicket of razor sharp Stucktan trees and Kytchwood bramble housing rebel elves and dangerous fauna within it's dark tunnel like passages of foliage. Along the powerful Ryne river the Rynewood Keep has held the wilderness at bay for over two centuries. Men and women from all reaches of the human lands are sent for a tour of duty keeping the region safe as possible from the countless dangers across the river and beyond. The keep itself is sturdy and magically warded against the Botcreep vines that work their way into the masonry of civilization and grow and weaken what men have built. Rynewood Keep is also a well kept, well stocked, and well manned fortress of multi-ethnic/national human soldiers, warriors, rangers, and hunters. Make sure you check in there before crossing the river, it will almost assuredly save extend your lifespan by a day or two."
Yor Dan Castle,Accursed Ruins," The Yor were a powerful mountain nation of men and women with bright red hair and white eyes who abandoned their oaths in a time of great fear and suffering. They believed if they didn't join the fray they could survive the war in their mountaintop castles and did not meet their allies on the field of battle which was lost that day. The war was won though and soon the Yor lands grew quiet, empty, and wild once more and their castles fell into disrepair with their vanishing. Today this castle is the last of their structures to stand (barely) and whenever you move in its expansive shadow you can feel the guilt and shame the spirits of the place whisper. You know, before the savage red coat, white eyed goatmen tribes of the area converge on you with primitive weapons and horrifying war cries."
The Golden Citadel,Mountain Fortification," For time immemorial the Thanes of the Golden Citadel have stood watch over the northern reaches from their council seats high in the mountains. The fortress is so named for its monumental doors, inlaid with gold and all manner of precious stone, produced by the finest smiths, engineers, and craftsman in the kingdom. The soldiers of this dwarven kingdom keep close eye on the narrow passes to protect the caravans which make the arduous journey northward to pay tribute, homage, and trade in the finest of rarities from across the world. As a result, though treacherous, many villages and towns have thrived in this frozen land. While any dwarven kingdom might be renowned for its might and wealth, the Golden Citadel is rumored to house antiquities and treasure beyond even the mundane. Pilgrims flow through its cavernous halls to pay tribute at the shrine of Moradin as they believe even godly relics lie within…"
Castle Black Rock,Floating Fortress," Floating high above the land, Castle Black Rock is a marvel of magical prowess. As if pulled straight from the earth the bore it, Black Rock sits aloft a floating rock of obsidian, giving a magnificent shiny, black appearance. Black Rock was once home to a High Lord who went mad with power. After scrounging magical tomes and scrolls for years, the High Lord finally managed to lift the fortress high into the air - the ultimate defense. Legends say that the High Lord died some decades ago, leaving his untold wealth sealed within the fortress vaults. Castle Black Rock appears to have been made from obsidian, though few have been close enough to determine it's true make. The walls climb up dozens of feet with parapets and guard towers stationed along the perimeter. Were the fortress stationed on the ground, it would be a difficult siege, but floating in the air? None had dared try."
Gates To the Endless,Dwarven Fortress," Towering above the crags and sands of the desert sit the Gates to the Endless. Protecting the labyrinthine mega-cities plunging for miles beneath the surface, the Gates have stood for aeons, with successful sieges of them being unheard of due to there massive expanse, seemingly-endless supplies, and superior design: a series of ascending walls leading to a central, domed building housing the massive doors to the urban expanse below"
The Rainbow City of Tyr,Magically Reinforced City," The Rainbow City of Tyr is the Capitol city of an empire, a city completely encircled by fortress walls, with streets and neighborhoods capable of being converted to defensible positions. In the center of the city, the Mage's Spire rises into the sky. At the top of this tower lies a magical crystal, which is rumored to be able to allow an Archmage to power a spell indefinitely. Denizens of the city can always see a rainbow in the sky, and friendly visitors describe the air around the city as shimmering. Enemies of the city are held back by a shield of light. It's said that no one can pass through this prismatic wall."
Fort Griffstone,Hobgoblin Stronghold," This massive slab of crude stone juts out of the vast elven forest of Fellodar, which spreads on for miles around it. Made out of the hobgoblin chief's inborn hate for the elves, this fortress was made as a hideout and base of operations for one of the most influential goblinoid tribes in Findon (World). The walls rise high between 4 square towers and above these walls lies the ""keep"", or the headquarters where the leaders discuss battle plans. No one has ever attempted to break in and rumors about the ominous place have spread throughout all of lower Findon."
Casperdon,Ancient Keep," At the bottom of a wide misty valley - as if the crater of some ancient fallen star - there occurs, once every moon, a strange event. The mists recede in a small sphere in the center and seem to coagulate into the form of a keep. The structure is solid to the touch, but damp and cool, and exerting too much pressure gives a sickening sinking sensation. At first glance uninhabited, entering the halls stirs up all manner of ghostly creatures. Benign apparitions of the staff go about in sad mimicry of their previous lives, while an aggressive and tortured ghost wards off any would-be visitors, or treasure hunters following tales of ghostly riches. This guardian is none other than Prince Casper, once the heir to the throne of a kingdom that covered the entire broad valley. Madness, murder, and betrayal are the common threads in the stories told of his father's last days, but they all end with the Prince - a powerful mage - going mad with grief, releasing a blast of energy that obliterated the castle and much of the valley, leaving behind the crater and ghostly manse that remain to this day."
Talreath,Strategic Outpost," Perched atop a waterfall, with roaring water cascading past on both sides, Talreath is as formidable as it looks and nigh impenetrable to boot. It overlooks the drainage basin of the Kaveri River, the glacial headwaters of which cascade around its walls. The valley below is fertile soil, its bounty the envy of many a neighboring nation and marauding tribe. The small fortress has never fallen in its long, illustrious history, surviving numerous sieges and assaults. Trophies and keepsakes from fallen would-be invaders line the walls of the keep, a living museum of military history. These treasures are valuable academically, but also a source of pride for the troops stationed there."
Fort Eagle-Eye,Aged Castle," Built by humans of a long forgotten kingdom, this castle was believed to have been created to protect nearby towns from the threats of the outlands. Weathering many assaults throughout its years, Eagle-Eye stands strong still, likely due to the ancient artifact in its tallest spire, simply known as the Emblem of the Eagle. Legend states that this emblem grants superior vision to its user, though none but the garrison of the keep could attest to this. Eagle-Eye was originally built out of large rough stone bricks, and while these bricks have been polished and carved so as to appear differently, the walls of this castle have remained whole and have scarcely degraded over the years."
Gorvesur,Dwarf Stronghold," Carved from the stark white stones of the surrounding cliffs, this dwarven stronghold was built to withstand any attacks from the treacherous humans of the North. In the daylight the walls seem to reflect light almost unerringly towards non-dwarves that are strangers to the city, though those that are friends of the city or its people will find this effect seem to go away. Originally intended as the site for a quarry of stone, this stronghold was built to hide an far greater treasure than stone. This stronghold houses a great wealth in gems as well as one of the most successful mines in both quality and quantity of resources. Rumors of these riches are often spread by prideful dwarves native to the stronghold, though other races are beginning to grow curious and no one may be able to tell what will happen."
Minas Khandûl,Fort beyond time and reason," The Dark Lord cemented his rule over the Void-plane of Normador by constructing a vast fortress. The size of a continent, with impregnable walls and impossible towers, his Candle Extinguished reminds his servants that the power they serve is beyond their power to bring down. Amongst the towers of void saronite are a few, higher towers. Constructed of the spinal columns of gods, these are the home of the Dark Lord's greatest servants. The greatest tower is Anthorc. Rising up and up in the red darkness of Normador, with a span larger than cities, it is the eternal home of the Dark Lord himself. Here he works at his most devious plans, those that will shake down the foundations of the Cosmos."
What's in this foul place?,dungeons," Demons, devils, resurrections, and chosen ones have me thinking about dark shrines, haunted tombs, and unpleasant vaults hidden beneath temples, monasteries, and ruins. So, let's make some! I'll post a few examples."
The Blood Pits,Infernal cavern complex," Somewhere in the Hells is this horrible place. The Blood Pits are a series of claustrophobic tunnels and chambers, subject to erratic blasts of steam and scalding sulfuric acid, where the pit fiend Gujerikk personally torments his collection of souls. New arrivals are shackled and subjected to flaying, par-boiling, and witnessing the souls of their loved ones suffer (when possible). Once sufficiently broken, souls are released into the lower tunnels where they are endlessly hunted for sport by Gujerikk's hounds and the fiend himself."
The Crypt of Sir Gordan the Green,Sealed-off crypt within a large temple," Sir Gordan, called the Green Knight, was a celebrated hero of the wars with the mountain clans. On a moonless night, with only his squire, he slipped into the clans' camp, slaughtered two chiefs and brought a third out as a hostage to force an end to the conflict. He never liked talking about how he managed the feat. Years later he died, a respected old knight at court and was buried in the Crown's Temple, as befits a hero. On the first new moon after his interment, a young priestess was beheaded while tending candles at the temple's high altar. On the second new moon after his interment, an old woman was cloven nearly in two while praying in a chapel within the temple. On the third new moon, the temple was cleared save a veteran priest and demon-hunter and his assistant. In the morning, they were dead of sword wounds. Finger-painting in his blood the priest had left one word: ""Gordan."" Afraid to move the cursed knight, his crypt was sealed off completely. That was years ago, now a young priestess swears she can hear scratching and tapping below the temple on nights when the moon is dark."
The Black Kitchen,Infernal tower," In a hellish wasteland is the tower of the fat devil called Melika the Mistress of Torment. She keeps her larder well stocked with fine spices, cheeses, breads, butters, fruits, wines, ales, and animals for slaughter. Music often fills her the air in her second floor dining room. Though she loves to hear screams, she enjoys the change of pace. The upper chambers are filled with shackled souls she has collected. New arrivals are plump and juicy; long-time residents are shriveled and dried."
The Deadways,Burned-out catacombs," When the guildmasters plotted their rebellion against the ruthless lord of the town, they knew they must eliminate the lord, his family, and his closest allies in a single, swift action. The death of the king's son gave them just that opportunity. Before the interment, members of the alchemists' guild had rolled vast barrels of dragontar into the catacombs beneath the Temple of the Dead and dripped a trail to the three known entry points on the surface. During the interment, when the funeral party was all underground, the dragontar was lit, consuming all those participating in the ceremony. Occasionally, mischievous boys will find their way into the Deadways; they don't always find their way out."
Ash Mountain Monastery,Ruined monastery," The ruins known as Ash Mountain Monastery lie near the pass between Ash Mountain and Corvid's Crag. The original name of the monastery is long-since forgotten, but the local folk tell that the monks attempted to bind a fire demon in their pursuit of deeper and darker secrets as to the origins of the world. The tales suggest that the demon broke free and raged about the place killing every brother, servant, and visitor. I wouldn't believe such tales, but there have been several disappearances and several brush fires in the pass of late."
Irondark Hold,"Broken, half-sunken dwarvish stronghold"," Carved into living rock far beneath the mountaintops once lay the mighty Irondark Hold. A vast stronghold that protected the dwarvish mining operations throughout the tunnels of the Iron Mountains, Irondark Hold is now sodden home to a foul thing. The thing whispered to the Lord of Irondark of the rich deposits of diamonds that lay in solid rock beneath the fortress. Haunted by dreams of glittering gems, the greedy lord dug more and more tunnels directly beneath the fortress, creating an unstable network of tunnels. One day, when the Irondark Legion returned from a campaign against the goblins, the tunnels beneath the fortress collapsed. The fortress crashed through nearly 200 feet of tunnels before resting for a few moments on a floor of stone that cracked and gave way before the fortress plunged 2,000 feet into a shallow subterranean sea. The thing that whispered still haunts the broken stones of Irondark Hold. Several dwarvish expeditions have been lost attempting to recover ancestral weapons and relics that had been in the fortress."
Sorrowful Sisters' Cloister,Abandoned chapel and sanatorium," The doors are barred and the windows boarded up to this former place of peace, penitence, and prayer. An inmate in the sisters' care became unhinged and killed a dozen other patients and healers with bludgeon and rope before he was subdued by a crossbow bolt to throat. The few remaining sisters left the place to join their order in another city, and no one has occupied the building since. Recently, several neighborhood residents swear they've seen an eerie green glow about the sanatorium wing late at night."
Meerlac's Lair,Subterranean Lair," Legend has it that Meerlac was a necromancer of great power who enjoyed his experiments on the living and the dead a bit too much. Driven mad by the voices of those he had killed or raised, he created a lair in which to hide. As each area of this complex was finished, he would decide where it would go from there. The workers would follow his orders out of fear and greed as he paid well. This led to a twisting turning maze of chambers, hallways, and stairs; many of which led nowhere. Eventually, Meerlac, driven to utter madness, was unable to communicate with others and his workers abandoned him in his lair where he roamed wildly until his death and perhaps still roams it today."
The Rat's Nest,Ruins," No information remains as to the original purpose of these ancient ruins. What is known is that they are located in the depths of a dark swamp and that they stand on the only truly solid ground available in the area. The commonly held rumor is that there is a dark magic at work inside that remains from the days when the ruins were a keep. This magic seems to have had an effect on the rats that have made their home there, leading them to be smarter, bigger, and aggressive. Some even speculate that the rats who have become intelligent enough to gain sentience have started a cult worshiping an ancient god they discovered in the chapel of the keep. While they have not yet, some fear that soon the rats will begin raiding nearby settlements for blood sacrifices for their new found deity."
The Midas Vault,Forbidden desert treasure complex," More than a century ago, an incredibly powerful -- and quite insane -- mage accumulated a massive hoard of wealth. But so paranoid was he of thieves and pilferers, that in order to protect his fortune, he decided to spend some of it to build a massive vault in the middle of a vast desert. Its exact location has since been lost to time and the shifting desert sands, but according to those who claim to have found it, from the outside, it appears to be a plain single-story stone building with a single entrance and a few small windows, but the structure extends deep underground, and is filled with many traps and hazards, magical and otherwise. As you descend, you will see larger and larger stashes of gold coins and bars, all minted with the mage's face. You will also encounter beasts and monstrosities that are attracted to gold and treasure, having been lured there by the sizable hoard. At the bottom-most level is a massive vault room where the mage's remains lie among his mountains of gold, having locked himself in shortly after the structure's completion. Unfortunately, even death won't be enough to keep him from letting go of his fortune."
The Golem Factory,Ancient underground mystical manufactorum," Eons ago, an unknown entity built this massive, magically-automated facility to ceaselessly manufacture golems to use as an endless army of servants and soldiers. Now, whoever built this place is long since gone, but the arcane machinery functions still. Perhaps it's been running nonstop since it was created, or perhaps it went dormant for untold years and has just reawoken; in either case, the factory is producing golems around the clock now, and these servants are performing their tasks as they were programmed to. They scatter throughout the lands, collecting raw materials to use in the construction of new golems, resulting in an ever-growing swarm of automatons of every shape and size, all built using the consumed resources of the surrounding area. Unfortunately, the required materials are beginning to become scarce in the area, and the swarms of golems are expanding their search further and further -- its only a matter of time before they encounter modern settlements. What's worse, any party looking to shut down the factory are in for more than they bargained for, as the massive golem ""overseer"" won't take kindly to any attempts to harm his reason for being."
The Mimic Nursery,Clandestine-hideout-turned-deathtrap," A conscienceless ""bootlegger"" has taken to raising mimics to plant on traveling merchants and nobles so that he may follow them and pick through the remains of their inevitable slaughter. Unfortunately for him, something went wrong in his hideout, and his mimics escaped, killing him immediately. The creatures then took up residence all throughout the hideout and its immediate surroundings, inadvertently guarding the treasure and other belongings he'd collected."
An Old King's Lair,Ornate Underground Burial Chambers," An old King of the campaign world was a next level narcissist, and decided that when he died he would be buried in a tomb that would properly reflect the splendor of his life. So, he designed a burial chamber that would reflect just how amazing a man he was. He laid out his chamber so that visitors would have to pass through multiple rooms to reach the chamber he was actually interred, and each room would be a scene from his life. The first room was a replica of the playroom he spent his childhood in. The second room was a replica of his classroom where he demonstrated his early brilliance and awed his teachers (that's how he remembers it.). The third room was a sparring ground where he showed his extreme proficiency with all known weapons (again, that's how he remembers it.). And so on. Each room was a detailed recreation of his life showing the splendor and glory that he brought to the world (again, as he remembers it, history and reality may remember it differently.). But, he wasn't a fool, he knew there would be those who might attempt to rob his tomb, and so each room was also well stocked with Golems, or Animated objects that would attack any who entered. The toys in the playroom would spring to life and attack, the books in the classroom would hurl themselves at intruders and explode, the weapons in the sparring ground would attempt to do bodily harm to those entering, etc."
The Perfectionist,Subterranean lair," The outside is covered with broken chairs, beds, candlesticks, and other household items, as well as the remains of humanoids, beast, and monstrosities. Inside, gold coins cover the ground. If one is picked up, the rest animate, skittering away like cockroaches. Dispel magic will stop one coin at a time. Anti-magic fields will stop all coins in their range. If the party drops something broken on the ground, the coins will group up and shove it out. The walls are perfectly smooth, with perfect right angles. Everything is spotless. Blood from battle is quickly caught and run outside by coins. Any opponents are exemplars of their type (in appearance). Final opponent - likely an Elf spellcaster of almost painful beauty (male or female). S/he grew an obsession with perfection, and has created a home without flaws. If any party members have visible scars, tattoos, or other physical flaws, s/he will target them first, regardless of logic."
The Vaults of Vaas,Temple of Banking," The Royal Vaults of Vaas were completed in the last weeks of the old Empire; the ceremonial bloodletting on the steps took place in sight of the burning Mage's Quarter, and many of those who attended were dead within a matter of days. Nevertheless, the vision of the Empress had been hewn from stone and sweat and silver, and even as the riots swept the streets below, the temple priests - decked in vestments of ermine and velvet - sealed the royal family and their wealth behind ten feet of iron. Now, twenty years hence, the gilded priesthood guard the temple still, patrolling long corridors, tending to the complex locks, and serving as intermediaries between the voices that speak in hushed tones from within the central vault and the outside world. That the royal family hasn't been fed in almost fifteen years is of some small worry to the priests, but their loyalties are clear - to stop any unauthorized bank access with all due force."
Scrimshaw's Folly,Deep Forest Encampment," Deep in the forested river valleys of the northeast spur, the Wendigo threat is very real. Settlers, driven by a lust for the wealth in electrum-laden streams, vie for territory with the ravenous creatures. In an attempt to better prepare themselves for the flesh-hungry cannibals, a volunteer corp of the Scrimshaw Expeditionary Company willingly underwent 'lycanthropy therapy' in one of the deeper frontier encampments. The results were never guaranteed, and while news from the outer edges of civilization is scarce, rumors suggest that (depending on your perspective) things went either terribly wrong, or wonderfully right. Regardless, representatives of the SEC have been surreptitiously contacting independent adventuring companies, promising heavy coinpurses for anyone willing to bring back evidence that the Wendigo War is going in their favor."
Saunt Lupine Abbey,Island Monastery," The seas off the coast of Jhead are notoriously treacherous, and for generations the only thing that has made them somewhat navigable is the enchanted light of the Abbey. Built into and around a squat upthrust knuckle of basalt, Saunt Lupine Abbey is centuries older than the order that inhabits it, with tunnels and passages running below and through that are even older. Most of these have long been sealed or gated off by the Abbey's current tenants, but some of the old network can be accessed through sea caves on the backside of the island, and are regularly used by smugglers as a staging point for shipments south. Questioned, both the religious and the roguish will hesitantly speak of the deeper tunnels, beyond the shaped and buttressed ones of their domain. There, they say, lie machines older than the abbey or the island both, humming quietly in dark recesses. If disturbed, dark mechanical sentinels rise up in defense, slaying all that dare trespass."
The Old Mill at Miller's Lee,A tower that used to be a mill in a city's early days," The old Mill tower, once a simple river mill, has been over time expanded as a defensive tower, looking out to the four Cardinal directions, to warn of danger. With proper defenses, the tower grew into disuse. Some say that only ghosts haunt the building. The doors are sealed, the tower dilapidated, and yet sounds of fighting are often heard from within. No one yet has gone to investigate."
The Goblin Dog Pit,Small Cavern," Small winding cavern system inhabited by goblins and their pets, the goblin dogs. Used for breeding and training for war, the pits have holding pens and a grand training room, as well as a huge pit where weaklings are discarded. The grand trainer is a revered sort of vile creature, adorned with many a sadistic trophy."
Gutolk's Birth,Mountaintop monastery," The stench of the sacrifices still lingers after many years. It is here that the demon Gutolk was summoned and set loose on the world. Ghouls, specters and other husks of former cultists zealously defend this unholy birthplace from invaders. Only by breaking the bond that once brought Gutolk to this realm can he be sent back."
Gnoll slaughterhouse,Valley camp," Slaves not fit for sale, either due to their age, sickness or disobedience, are brought to the slaughterhouse of Zanembi. They are then sacrificed to Yeenoghu as a thanks."
The Contraption,A mobile Constructed fortress," The Contraption is difficult to locate, not just because it's seventeen gargantuan legs keep it very mobile, but because it is enchanted to be hidden inside a very severe storm appropriate to the terrain it is in. Ages ago, an insane Elven war-wizard, self-styled an emperor, attempted to conquer the world with the Contraption. The wizard was assassinated and the fledgling nation fell apart. This is the only verifiable history recorded on the Contraption. The origins of it are unknown. Since the fall of the wizard, who's name has been magically removed from history, the Contraption has moved on its own across the land. It is not unoccupied, however. Many constructs have found their way to the Contraption and have taken up maintenence and living there. The Contraption holds untold dangers and likely very few treasures after these centuries past. Still, magicians from all the Plains have sought it. The Contraption is itself an implement of magical work, and is itself the prize."
Bandar Yang Mati,ancient undercity burial complex," Beneath the ancient city of Bandar Pusat lies a vast network of tunnels, burial chambers and tombs. Hundreds of years ago, before the residents of this city began burning their dead, the officials of this already thousand-year-old metropolis were faced with the problem of overflowing cemeteries. They dug into and expanded the network of sewer tunnels already present, and created a vast subterranean network of passages and burial chambers that have since become home to monsters, secret societies, criminal organizations, and gods know what else. There are hidden entrances to Bandar Yang Mati in many buildings throughout the ancient city; few are aware of more than one, and nobody knows where they all are. And of course, the bones of tens of thousands of men, women and children are laid to rest here..."
The Roots of Gulthias,Underground cavern supported by tree roots," The first Gulthias tree, a twisted and enormous tree that grew from a stake that killed a vampire of terrible power, is long since destroyed by some ancient hero of legend. However, the stake itself survived, deep under the roots of great tree. It has lay dormant for centuries, siphoning trace amounts of life from the foliage above. The world above remains unaware of the fearful goal of the Seed of Gulthias: the creation of a powerful undead, born of with the stake as its heart; perhaps even the rebirth of Gulthias himself. The cavern is a maddening maze of twisted roots and tunnels, stalked by blights and the undead corpses of a millennium's worth of unlucky adventuring parties."
The Doomed Workshop of Orvizar,Demiplane fused with a Far Realm entity," The mad wizard Orvizar specialized in the study of aberrations, believing that if we could better understand the outsiders we might be able to make peace. In order to study his topic of interest, Orvizar established his magic workshop in what was, to him, the most logical location for such an endeavor: A demiplane connected to the Far Realm. Surprisingly, Orvizar is said to have made a great discovery before the abnormal magical activity attracted the attention of one of the denizens of the plane. The entity subsumed the plane, absorbing it such that the workshop itself is inseparable from the creature. Orvizar's notes are presumably intact somewhere in the plane; his lost discovery might have the power to save the world from a great threat or, in the wrong hands, plunge it into madness."
Maze of endless cries,abandoned catacombs," Decades ago, cultists terrorized a village and sacrificed children in these catacombs. Suddenly they disappeared. Nobody knows what happened to them. For decades almost nobody dared to explore these catacombs. And those who tried, returned soon, telling horrible stories of children cries, echoing through ancient walls of catacombs."
The Forgotten Lord's Grave,Underground crypt," This crypt has been built once in honour of a fallen feudal lord, but robbers had quickly purloined anything of value. A necromancer of some renown, Fael the Ravenous, used the bones of the dead ruler to create its undying and loyal servant, Groxan. Fael left the tombs years ago, but lately, villages close by have been plagued by nightmares, all involving a dark shade. Its name long forgotten, the lord's spirit has been left to haunt his final resting place, going mad from the endless years staying near the tomb where its bones should once more be entombed, rather than have them shuffle around as the necromancer's servant remains undead, killing all but his master."
Call of the Corynth,Palace removed from proper civilization," Ages ago, the mad king Coriolanus earned his title after his only son died to a witch's black magic. He went insane with witch hunts and tore the kingdom to pieces, throwing it into ruin and decay. As he stood in his palace hall, he used his last funds to hire enchanters to enchant his entire palace to lure treasure seekers and magic-users to his palace so he may judge them. Even after his death, the rumors persist that the mad king still stands waiting for a mage to enter and take responsibility for his son's death."
The Vault of Tested Faith,Basement Repository for Unholy Things," For many decades, the ancient monastic order of the Crusading Spirit sent its new recruits to Erhaben's Mount, to be schooled at the temple of the same name. Over the years, the order's sorties recovered many artefacts deemed 'unholy'; the majority of these were destroyed. Of those that weren't, some were brought to the school for use as academic study, and eventually the collection of these built up in the vaults beneath the temple until they reached a critical mass. Unperturbed, the monks devised a new use for the vaults. Young boys' minds were always prone to wandering, straying into thoughts not proper for one being shaped into a noble crusader. The order instituted a new test, a way to reaffirm in the minds of their pupils what the real cost of straying from the true path would be. Deviants were sent in to the vaults, and left to find a route through. Such were the unholy terrors that had accumulated in those depths, many of the boys were overcome and joined the ranks of the undead things - or worse - that prowled in the darkness. But those who came through were reaffirmed in their faith, and often grew to become some of the most bold leaders of that great order. Of course, unholy power of that magnitude could not be contained forever, not with such regular feeding. In time, the contents of the basement overflowed, the temple reduced to an empty and desolate shell. But it still stands today; no-one dares to scrounge the masonry from its walls, and only the most foolhardy would dare to enter the vaults themselves..."
Great Hall of Betrayal,Burial Mound," Two thousand years ago during the bronze era of man there was humanities first great conquer. His thirst for territory was insatiable and he plunged the world into chaos. Too stop the madness he and his elite guard were poisoned during their feast in the Great Hall. They were sealed in the hall to die. With his dying breath the conquer vowed never to yield his throne. He was transformed into a wright and his men zombies. When they heard the dead men inside druids of old were called. The eldest druid decided to cover the great hall, the conquer, and all with earth, and leave them to rot. Under high hill seats the conquer on his throne bound by his death curse. Woe to those who would dig into his burial mound seeking riches."
The Necropolis,Ancient Temple of Death god," This Temple is the heart of power for a god of Death on the Material plane. It was roughly hewn from stone of the earth, as the entire complex reaches deeper and deeper beneath the earth. Sparse Fires light the corridors throughout the temple, and corpses are huddled around the flame, almost as if attempting to ward off the unnatural chill of death that permeates the complex. At the heart of the Temple is the scythe of the god's last champion, whose corpse will rise from the nearby throne to defend the temple from those who would defile it, or so the legends say, for no one who has entered with intent to reach the chapel proper has ever come out to tell the tale."
The Unhallowed Temple,A former holy temple that has been taken over by dark forces," Entering the large oak doors at the entrance to this long forgotten temple, you immediately feel a sense of unease. Progressing through the otherwise normal temple reveals a deep subterranean cavern leading to the home of the cult to the great old ones (or other dark force) that has slowly been corrupting this former holy site"
The Amphibian Hive,Subterranean Tunnels," In an oxbow lake is a small island where an item of great power is said to be hidden away, guarded by a hive of Bullywug or Sahaugin or Slaad whom have been entrusted with the object's care. It is a gooey, confusing mess of tunnels; the entrance is near impossible to find amongst the foliage. Easily awoken are the sleeping many, clustered in larger pockets among the tunnels. The item sought is guarded by the chieftain and his retinue in the large, central pocket. If threatened, the entire cavern can be flooded with water. Not a problem for the monsters, but what of our adventurers?"
The Wolves Den,Wilderness Cave," For the past month wolves have been hunting in unusually large packs, forming bands of a few dozen to over a hundred. They've been more confident and aggressive and have been attacking villages and towns along to borders of the wild forest. No one knows why they've been behaving like this, but they all seem to be congregating around a massive cave system in the center of the wild forest."
The Fey Stone,Natural Stone Tower," Once a meeting point for the elves and the seelie court the Fey Stone is a tower of natural uncarved stone that can be seen for miles around above the forest canopy. The stone circle at the top of the tower still likely works as a portal to the realm of the Fey, but the door at the base only opens for those of Elven blood and the long dead elven knights and priests that starved trapped within are said to still guard the Fey Stone's halls. Not to mention of course the great unseelie Fey beast that once besieged the tower in hopes of entering its portal that some say still lurks within the forest, waiting for someone to finally open the towers door and let it in."
Light’s Bastion,Paladin Stronghold," Contrary to its name, the Bastion is religious prison where the order’s naysayers and enemies are locked away and tortured. The old fortress turned prison has large anti-chambers and hallways with prowling paladins. There are two heavily guarded sections of the dungeon; the Sky-Warrens, where most of the prisoners are kept, and the Quagmire, where the most evil and more powerful prisoners are imprisoned. The Sky-Warrens are on the roof where sharp cold winds blow almost constantly. The prisoners huddle together for warm and fight for food that is lifted up via cranes. The Quagmire is subterranean series of tunnels that lead into a depressed cavern that has been filled with the local swamps fumes and runoff. The smell is noxious and the prisoners are locked within personal cells that separated by their moats and long walkways. If a prisoner tries to escape, the floor to the cell falls out, causing to plummet down into the murk, where various monsters and poisonous plants have made their home. If that doesn’t kill them, the paladins guard the only exit, which a small waterfall that flows into the cavern."
Temple of Demogorgon,Underwater Temple," Under an area of the sea where it isn't uncommon for a ship to go missing, Merrow do dark work in a sunken temple. Led by a coven of sea hags, whatever prey they manage to catch is sacrificed in a ritual of blood and brine. The Prince of Demons loves mindless destruction - but were these offerings commanded, or given freely?"
The sewers under Harroston,Ancient Sewer System," Tucked away in a pleasant vale lies Harroston. Though it was often raided in darker times, the city now lies peacefully in the heart of the empire. The ancient sewer system, built long ago, is no longer maintained, and the locations of the drains are lost to memory. Within the sewers, a force grows, storing food and weapons in dry and long-unused tunnels, placing traps and feeding beasts in off-shoots, and turning what was once a municipal boon into a delivery vehicle for assassins."
The Sewers Under Port New-Hope,Infested Sewer System," The sewers under Port New-Hope have never been a nice place. Wet, slimy, full of molds and refuse; you wouldn't have wanted to go in there, even before the big rains. Since that unholy rainfall last month, however, things are different. The sea-water rose so high that a number of creatures made their way into the sewer system, and have taken up residence there. It's rumored that sharks and eels swim in the sewers, poisonous barnacles coat the walls, and tentacled monsters have found hiding holes in the overflow chambers."
The Sewers Under Drendar Tower,Magical Sewer System," Drendar Tower is a top-notch school for the study of alchemy. They have all the herbs, poultices, tinctures, scales, monster-bits, and potions you could ever hope to mix together. They have invented some incredible items. A potion that will allow you to grow wings! A loaf of bread that, when eaten, causes hilarious discoloration of the eater's limbs for up to a week! An ointment that allows flesh to grow back within minutes! And best of all, when a mixture explodes or bubbles over or plain just doesn't work, all rooms in the tower have a drain that runs off into the sewers below. Meanwhile in the sewers, many creatures have gained bizarre new powers: The rats can breathe fire, the bones from old bodies dance and twirl, connecting to form grotesque shapes, spiders create webs out of icicles."
The Cave of Wonders,Sentient Cave System," The exterior of this cave in a barren hillside appears to be a giant stone lion's gaping maw. Anyone within a few miles of the cave gets the impression that the cave must hold untold treasures and/or knowledge inside, according to an individual's inner desires. When inside, there are several large chambers with small amounts of treasure, maps, keys, scrolls, or carvings indicating that there is a large trove of desirable treasure in the deepest chamber. The deepest chamber contains much treasure, but the most important thing is a beautiful jeweled dagger on a pedestal. When entering the chamber, one is immediately attracted to this dagger above all else. When one holds the dagger, one is suddenly overcome with an incredible desire to sacrifice oneself then and there to the Cave. When this occurs, the living stone shifts and consumes the corpse, then waits for its next victim. The other treasures within are from consumed adventurers, and if those who enter make the Cave impatient or are somehow satisfied with the little they find in the various antechambers, the Cave spawns ashen ghouls from the living stone who share consciousness with the Cave; so it is that the Cave of Wonders can feed passively or actively."
The Buried City of Mondeer,Buried town with abandoned buildings," What used to be a hotspot for illegal activity, the small city of Mondeer had a reputation for illegal trade of unconsenting civilians and the poor. It was ruled by the iron fist of the nefarious burgomaster Ghals Mondeer, a title which he inherited. The town laid within the Mondeer valley (named after the town), and was surrounded by Mt. Vesurian and Mt. Versurate. One fateful day, a storm raged throughout the valley with the strength of the gods. It struck the twin mountains' tops, crumbling them onto the town. The town wasn't destroyed and was instead domed in, trapped from the outside with people still alive within. Resources grew limited, and everyone died within the first few months as the town was ignored by neighbors just over the mountains. Everyone was happy once it had vanished. A recent expedition of the town had a hole blown through the rock barrier, yet none of the explorers have exited. The former slaves after dying have been turned into Poltergeists, protecting every one of the abandoned houses. They don't want to be controlled ever again."
Zalthurian Chambers,Silly Cultist Convent," The haven of the Cult of Shame, those who seek to reincarnate Zalthor, King of Shame from the outer dimensions. A small shrine with several rooms carved into a mountainside, the walls covered in tan, viscous liquid shame. The dungeon refuses to adhere to logic or physics, and chambers rearrange when not directly observed. Shame Cultists are gibbering madmen that go to outlandish lengths to express their shame in themselves and everything around them."
The Shame Hole,A Shrine to Terrible Things," A different take on the Cult of Shame, a cabal of those who understand the terrible things sentient life does, they follow the teachings of the God of Disgrace. Aside from the viscous fluid that coats every surface to some degree or another, the compound is austere and puritanical. Shame Cultists throw themselves at the party with reckless, unquestionably suicidal abandon, capable of mortifying PCs with magic. The Burdening Chambers lock a party member in until they face the crimes they have committed and accept the shame that comes being such vile, corrupt creatures such as men."
The Trial of the Ordinates,Labyrinth / Short-cut for travel," This labyrinth of snaking tunnels, whistling breeze ways, and soaring caverns lies at the juncture of the foothills of the nearby mountains and the arid, now dry drainage basin that borders the heath to the south. Chasms open up now and again to reveal flecks of blue visible from the floor of this maze. Hoodoos and spires mate with crumbling crevasses and cavern entrances to produce a semi-subterranean, semi-superficial lair for a host of nasty critters. Why anybody would venture through is beyond the capacities of the locals, but this path could cut days from your journey, and you're already running low on supplies. Admittedly, there are untold dangers within; nobody has ever returned from here after staying just one night."
The well of Kah'troar,Resting place of an evil best left forgotten," Legend says that there is a forgotten plane of existance in the outskirts of the Far realm. A Plane that once could have been compared to Mount Celestia, and that is now know is barely ushered even by the cruelest of devils. In such a twisted plane, mostly formed by levitating stones, Sits The well. Before-the-gods ancient buildings are found near such well , most of them being huge pillars of chiseled obsydian,other being shrines with unholy symbols. In the well, an ancient horror sleep and dream. It dreams about the past, the present, and the future. It also follow the puny things that worship him, and that try to found the Plane he resides. They call him Kah'troar, He who corrupted the incorruptible, Herald of the dust, He who ages time. It is whispered that the Dungeon changes depending on what Kah'troar is dreaming, but the general structure remains the same."
Tomb of the Living,An Actual Dungeon," Men imprisoned for crimes are tossed into the Tomb of the Living. There are scare resources within the tomb, and to survive, you likely will become more of a monster than any that would seek to run in its halls."
The WitherGrove,Bosk of Trees," Within a circle of all-dead trees, an evil lurks. Fairie circles of poison mushrooms and the innocent birdsong belie a truly dangerous place where the ghost of a mad, evil unicorn lurks. Stepping on or through the poison mushrooms is dangerous, so even in a seemingly open space, there is a maze-like quality."
Overgrown Temple of the Cat God,"Ruined, overgrown temple in a jungle"," The vast stone structure is the shape of a crouched cat waiting to pounce on it's next victim. Buried deep within the jungle, it has been completely overgrown with vines and other foliage. The trees have twisted their roots around it's paws and tail and have stretched their branches over it covering it in shadow. What first looks like an enormous statue reveals a singular opening, stone steps lead up through the fanged, gaping mouth. Legend says that this ancient temple was built and used by a particular species of lycanthropes; were-cats that took the form of Jaguars centuries ago. No one has dared to enter it, let alone loot it for fear of the curse of the Felis-Onca. A demon spirit of the feline lycanthrope god is said to protect the ancient ruin and will possess any intruder, twisting their shape during three nights of the full moon into a hideous beast in order to seek retribution on any who dares defile the temple."
The Broken Tower,Large Fallen Fortress," The Broken Tower as it is known to the local population was built as a watch tower by a long forgotten king hundreds of years ago. For many years the tower guard served faithfully until, according to legend, the guard accepted a generous bribe and allowed the enemies of their King to pass without lighting the beacon. After the enemy army was driven off the King executed all of the guard, buried them under the tower, and cursed them. They have returned and claimed the tower for their new dark master a powerful litch."
Temple of the Raven's Servants,Subterranean temple," This is the temple where the Order of the Raven meets up. It's located underneath the city, and can be accessed through the sewers. The members of this Order are mad men, who believe in the free will of allkind (because humankind isn't enough) and wants to prove it to the Gods, Universe and everyone by preventing every single prophecy they get to know of."
Mirror of Woe,Salt Flats/Dead Sea," The remains of an inland sea, long drained by capricious gods, and littered with remnants and specters of the past. It's dangerous to cross as the salt cracks the skin, and winds whip up scouring sad storms. The bones of forgotten leviathan and bleached coral spires hide both uncanny spirits of ancient aquatic evils and strange men who wrap themselves completely in white rags to worship the salt spirits."
Red Beacon,Ancient Ruins," An eons old ruin of spiraling imperishable red glass raised by earthquake from the plains. Malice spreads from it killing life, making a wasteland and warping all it touches. Within are halls of razor corners and dangerous shadows of murky red light."
Army of the Heretic King,Colossal Wreck," No one knows the source of this edifice, a colossal wreck of rusted iron, tarnished brass and cracked ceramic surrounded by settled fields and tidy villages whose residents deny its presence. Once a towering arcane engine of war, it's grim rotting interior holds lost secrets of magic and other treasures of the decadent past but are haunted by feral automatons and perhaps the vengeful spirits of their sorcerer masters."
Musty Mausoleum,Mausoleum," There is a certain point in the life of every powerful wizard where lichdom arises as a possible route to immortality, or at least to avoiding death. When this happens, unnoticed by many - often even the wizard in question - a small rift opens in the ground nearby. This opening is often hidden in some shadowed ravine, or on the lowest level of some buried catacombs, but it is always there. Just inside the mouth is a short tunnel sloped downwards, permeated by a strong musty scent. At the end of the tunnel lies the Musty Mausoleum, contained in its own pocket dimension of unknown size and looking like it has seen the birth and death of many worlds. The interior is covered in scribbled writing, of languages young and old, monstrous and human, intelligible and not. Ever-present is the odoriferous decay of undeath. With each appearance of the Mausoleum, the only inhabitant is the previous wizard whose contemplation of lichdom it was drawn to, whether they decided to undergo the transformation or not. It is unclear whether it is the actual wizard/lich, or a magical simulacrum created by the eerie tomb, but this being is decidedly not aggressive. Instead, it offers a tale of it's own thoughts and experiences, almost as a counselor of sorts. The origin and purpose of the Mausoleum is unknown, but if asked most guardians say it must be something about offering guidance, preserving the balance, those sorts of things."
Hole in the Hills,Abandoned mine, This abandoned copper mine has recently been occupied by a band of displaced and hungry goblins. These goblins have been making raids against the local sheepherders. They carry off sheep because the sheep don't seem to fight back as much as the sheepherders do.
Hilltop Ruins,Castle ruin," This ancient ruin would have held a commanding view of the valley. The place is so old that no one really knows who built it. Despite it's lack of known history, there seems to be a new and unpleasant denizen living in the cellars and dungeons of the ruin every week."
"The Filth Outside, the City's Refuse",Urban rubbish heap," Outside the city's walls, a half mile downriver atop a low-lying marsh is the city's main rubbish heap. The place is a swamp, a cesspool, and a labyrinth of stacked garbage. It is a den for scavengers and a treasure trove for beggars. Several kobold tribes, more than one type of carrion-eater, and a vicious gang of beggar-thieves (led by a wererat named Oskher) have made themselves at home among the moist mess that the city belches forth daily. Barges carry the trash downriver to a crude landing and then filthy lugs cart the trash from the landing to fill in whatever open spot is convenient."
"The Filth Below, the City Sewers",City sewers," Below the city streets are the narrow sewers that carry run-off and other filth to the river. The newer portions of the sewers are connected by tunnels barely large enough for a child, but the older pipes are tall enough and wide enough for grown men to walk upright, wading through the filth. Once a year, the city sweeps out the rats, oozes, toxic fish, and other filthy critters. Occasionally they find something truly dangerous has taken up residence in the filth below."
The Thunderdome,Prison/arena on a floating earth mote," ""Welcome! All who come here will die!"" Nestor, Lord of the Cloud Giants greets you. This is where he releases his prisoners into an enormous central cavern in the lowest levels of his flying mountain fortress. Several galleries for spectators, often including Nestor himself, are perched high on the walls. Prisoners begin in the central cavern, but most run for one of the exit tunnels to avoid the pair of nearly-blind ancient white dragons chained within it. In the tunnels are a variety of hungry beasts and restless dead. If you are fortunate enough not to become something's meal, there is a good change that a wrong step will send you sliding down a chute that opens up into the sky beneath the fortress."
King Cirthoeil's Dungeon,Underground prison," Carved into an enormous rock at the fork where two rivers meet, the wood elf king reigns over the forest from this fortress. He keeps his prisoners in the damp lower levels. At times when the rivers rise, the hewn-stone chambers flood. The passages twist and rise and fall in a confusing pattern, making escape difficult. Even if you make it past the guards, you will need to manage to sneak out over one of the two main drawbridges to escape."
The Bone Crypt,Monastery ruin/crypt," Beneath the ruins of the shadow monks' monastery are many crypts, but none like this. The written accounts have been lost, but legends hold that a powerful shadow-brother demanded this crypt be built as a monument to honor death itself. The crypt is small, only a few rooms, but every inch of the walls and ceilings are covered in intricately assembled designs made of humanoid bones. Fully assembled skeletons are mounted to the walls and ceilings and swirling patterns of bone cover the spaces in between. The locals fear the monastery, but they shudder at the mention of the Bone Crypt."
Crypt of Death's Kiss,Temple complex/crypt," The temple complex dedicated to the sun god has been here for over a thousand years, but worshipers of the sun god have only been here for a few centuries. Parts of the original temple are still intact in the lower levels, a temple dedicated to a long-forgotten the goddess of death. Her servants lie waiting for her return, waiting for the light of the sun god to burn out."
The Ruined City of Cherunalem,Ancient ruin," This was once a thriving town of brick and stone buildings and paved stone streets. Centuries ago, a nearby volcano underwent a massive eruption that sent lava flows down against the walls and that engulfed the town and its residents in a cloud of burning hot ash. Now it is remembered in song, and any who visit will find a strange ghostly reminder of its former vibrancy."
The Caverns of Flamesong Mountain,Active Volcano," Flamesong Mountain towers above the plane around it, quietly waiting to unleash its fury—as it did at least once before, long in the past. In living memory, it does little more than occasionally belch a small puff of ash a few times a year. Within the mountain, are twisting, inter-connected tunnels left by rapid lava flows of more violent eruptions. The air in the tunnels is hot and stinks of sulfur. Stories speak of red dragons, fire giants, and efreet living below Flamesong, but these may be nothing more than stories."
Frozen Caverns of Gr'guth,Ice caves," Below the mountains, far to the north, Gr'guth the Mighty Frost Giant King holds court. Gr'gurth's court is a pretty dull place, since there are rarely visitors in his cold and inhospitable realm. He leaves the front door unguarded and waits impatiently for guests to arrive for dinner. If you can't find your way through the mazes of tunnels to meet your host, you needn't worry: his wolves will find you."
The Vaults of the Temple of Winter,Hidden Temple Chambers and Treasury," Beneath the Storm King's Temple of Winter is a network of chambers and passages, the existence of which is well known to those outside the temple. However, only the Brothers and Sisters of Storms that reside in the temple complex are allowed into the lower levels, so rumors of what lies within vary wildly. Some say that within these halls of ice and stone is an older, more heavily-guarded library than the famed library in the upper levels. Within the library are books containing spells of terrible power and horrifying secrets of the cosmos. Whispers also speak of foul creatures, preserved in ice, kept for study and observation by the temple's scholars—demons, devils, dragons, and things even older and fouler."
The Sitadel,Primary stronghold in the Puppy Realm," This world is an unending sea of puppies rising and falling like turbulent waves in an ocean. The Sitadel is made of compact and shaped puppies and holds their most valued and malicious of the PUPulation. High up in the Sitadel's towers reigns the most powerful illusionist puppy in the realm Booo, forever looking like the cutest stuffed animal puppy. In contrast, down below in the darkest dungeons resides the most mangy lot imanginable, the Pound Puppies."
Sacred Sky Burial of the Elves,A heavily trapped tower," The elves have long buried their most glorious dead on top of or within their Sacred Sky Tower. They bury them with their most precious items, armor, and weapons. This temps would-be grave robbers and adventurers and thus the elves have made each level leading up to the tower a labyrinth of puzzles and traps. What most don't know is that there is an ancient Lamp at the top of the tower with a demon of undead trapped inside. They keep the demon and their dead just in case the elves ever need an army to protect themselves. However, someone has quietly broke into the tower and is trying to call forth the undead army, under his own control."
The Tomb of Skal'Tor Resh,Crypt," Skal'Tor Resh was once among the most powerful individual on the face of the world. His tactical capabilities were unequalled, yet they paled in comparison with his mastery of the arcane arts. His desire for power led him into making one of the most deeply loathed deals ever known - he sold the souls of the whole of his nation in exchange for untold power as the champion of Hell. In such a fashion were the tieflings created, and in their anger they overthrew him. He was interred in this almighty cavernous crypt, designed as much to keep people out as to keep him in."
Ancient Blood God Temple,Abandoned Temple," A long since forgotten religion devoted to blood left this temple and it was reclaimed by nature, the inside is relatively untouched. A simple layout, there are locked doors controlled by puzzles involving blood or similar fluid."
Driftwood Tree,Natural Formation," A species of tree that seems to be extinct, gigantic portions of these trees occasionally wash ashore. The tree has large natural spaces within it that become home to semi aquatic creatures when washed ashore. Many chambers will be water filled."
Soundless Halls,Cultist abode," An underground network of halls and small rooms designed to remove all sound and echo, people can barely hear each other in here, being alone can cause one to go insane. The cultists occupying these spaces believe sound corrupts the soul."
Giant's Puzzle,Ruin," Not a traditional dungeon. Ancient ruins in ring shapes, sometimes concentric sometimes spacey placed. The rings rotate when some of the ruins are interacted with (Usually via small puzzle or key). When the ings are aligned in a certain way ""something happens""."
Void Chambers,Deep Dungeon," Originally an ancient torture/imprisonment method. Huge underground areas (Sometimes several miles across) a carved out in hard stone areas, with minimal ventilation and very infrequent entrance/exits. The idea is that prisoners would be dropped in and never be able to leave. After being abandoned for a long time, burrowing creatures left the areas somewhat populated."
Hall of Drugs,Trial Dungeon," Great alchemists and healers, some banished for extreme practices. Have been know to take up residence in old crypts. Gatekeepers would keep visitors from progressing further until they try a drug the gatekeeper supplies, the afflicted would then face a trial of some description, before meeting the next gatekeeper/trial. These dungeons often reward visitors with potions or antidotes."
Double Helix Dungeon,Dual-Dungeon," Two thin spiraling corridors with many doors, puzzles and enemies. Parties must enter each helix, the doors in the dungeon will only open when the other party has reached a certain point. If a party tries to backtrack all doors on the other helix will lock."
The Burial mound of the Morakki People,Graveyard," Small burial chambers by an ancient people, it was practiced by the great people of this tribe to leave treasure in their graves, and allow any with sufficient skill to claim this treasure."
Gusty caves,Natural formation," A network of narrow caves atop a mountain, wind blows harshly through them, making it dangerous to even enter. One day an entire bag of gold landed in a town at the base of the mountain, treasure hunters have since attempted to explore the caves."
Adventures Guild Dungeon,Adventures Guild Basement," A prestigious Adventurers Guild requires official member's to carry a small metal insignia. This insignia can only be obtained from one place, the very lowest floor of their basement/dungeon. The dungeon is filled with a variety of trials designed to test if one is ready to be a top-class adventurer."
Ghost Ship Eventide,The Eventide," An abandoned vessel is seen drifting in the fog on moonless nights, with ragged sails and not a crewman to be seen. It has been spotted near each of the six gates of the Dread Lich - gates which have long since been captured and closed lest those undead armies return."
Vault of Arjuna / Forge of the Gods,Water Based Dungeon," A vast cavern carved down to magma, the Forge of the Gods is where the mighty smith set to work for a thousand days and nights to craft the armaments of the Heavenly Host before they went to battle their cousins in a brutal civil war. On the last day, Arjuna realized that he could not be part of the slaughter. He created a lake above his forge and hid his creations in an extra-dimensional vault, one only reachable by turning the turbines which once powered his bellows. The only thing he said is ""My treasures will only return when my forge is left in ruins, vanishing like tendrils of vapor in a hurricane."" To open the vault, you must drain the lake into the forge. The steam turns the turbines, opening the vault."
Blackberry Falls,Village / Armpit of the Kingdom," Blackberry Falls is a stinking pit of a village located in the swamps beneath the eponymous waterfall. The town has no non-humans, no government, and only a lecherous priest and Butch the local thug to impose order. Everything stinks, everything sucks, and everyone is racist, xenophobic, or the doddering old buffoon who runs ""Crispy Critters: Frog on a Stick!"" Blackberry Falls, mistakenly presumed to be an idyllic riverfront paradise, is chosen as the site of upcoming peace talks. The players have been tasked with ensuring the town is up to the task."
Witch Hunt,Trap/Torture maze," As the adventurers walk through a forest they encounter twin brothers, one with a pitchfork and the other with a torch and shortsword. Upon questioning, the two brothers proclaim with naive gusto that they are on a “witch hunt”. The brothers will explain that there are witches living in a cabin in the forest who have been abducting members of their village and they intend to put a stop to it once and for all, inviting the party members to join them on their hunt. If the party does not accept the invitation, the brothers will continue on their way peacefully. If the party accepts the invitation, the brothers will lead them down the path to the witch cabin. They will crouch at the edge of the woods to observe the cabin, whispering tales of the witches’ kidnappings and evil deeds to the party. After a short time observing the cabin, the brothers will state that the witches must be out and that it would be best to wait inside and ambush them upon returning. The brothers will lead the party into the house, suspiciously looking around at the insides. If the PCs perform a search of the cabin, they can easily find a trap door which leads to the basement. The brothers will otherwise find the trap door and suggest that they go into the basement to wait for the witches so that they aren’t seen through the windows, and they will lead the way down. Once the entire party has entered the basement, the brothers will look around suspiciously, waving their torch. They turn toward the party and smile as their disguises melt away and they reveal themselves as the witches and they will be hunting the party. The basement goes dark, leaving the party to illuminate their own way and two cackling female voices will echo through the labyrinthine dungeon/basement. “We’re on a witch hunt… a witch hunt.” “A witch hunt a witch hunt...” “Run run run run...” as the witches run away from the party before combat begins. The dungeon will be played by the board game “Labrynth” with the PCs arranged in the center of the board and the witches dispersed. The witch monsters can each use their action to shift the rows and columns of the dungeon by placing a single random square. This ability has a three round cooldown (the dungeon can only reform once every three rounds). After the witches are defeated, the walls crumble away, leaving a grid of columns underneath the house with the illuminated ladder in the center of the game board. Monsters: 2 Hags"
Flooded Mines,Underwater caverns, This seaside mine once provided ore and gems to the surrounding communities until the sea level rose and flooded it. Strange creatures from the depths now occupy its watery chambers.
The Glass Menagerie,Abandoned Atelier," These ruins were once the workshop and playground of a powerful wizard. Living glass creatures roam what were once gardens and buildings, attacking any who dare to enter."
Halls of Glauchrysos,Ant Tunnels," This labyrinthine tunnel complex was once home for a great Myrmidon queen known as Glauchrysos. She and her brood lived here and mined until they were driven out by the humans nearby. Since their departure, the fungal gardens have overgrown, and now the tunnels are inhabited by monsters twisted by plague."
Moaning Grotto,Natural Formation," This cave is named for the keening wail produced by wind blowing through it. It was (or perhaps still is) used as a hidden base by a rebel faction, who relied on rumors of it being haunted to keep their presence secret."
Nine-Fingers' Keep,Castle," A wooden castle which houses the local baronet. While he once was generous, he has since squandered his wealth, and now is looking to replenish his coffers by other means."
Jaundice Point,Natural Formation," At the westernmost edge of Cape Somerset, there is a great stretch of coast lined with cliffs. There is only one possible landing for ailing ships: Jaundice Point. But the point serves not as a safe haven so much as the entrance to a great maze of mud and fog and razor-sharp rocks -- and rumors of a strange creature lurking in the mist."
City of the Crown,Ruin," The City of the Crown was the gem of human civilization before the rift opened and demons crept their way into the hearts of man. Now, it is home only to the Lord of Hate and his gibbering entourage."
Belly of the Whale,Animal," The Leviathan dwells at the bottom of the ocean, a great whale that can swallow ships if it so desires -- and it does. Who knows what else has been devoured by the thing over the years. And what happens if the Leviathan and Behemoth have their great battle with the PCs still inside?"
Labyrinth of the White Tree,Mythical tree with healing pattern hidden at center of maze," At the center of this maze there is a tree that bears magical fruit and is rumored to be able to bring someone back from the brink of death. There are reports of changing paths, deadly creatures, and things that go bump in the night. Will you be able to save your beloved by bringing out a fruit?"
Labyrinth of Sword & Song,Ancient ruins that require 3 tuning forks to open, the labyrinth consists of 4 larger rooms with lots of tunnels connecting them with lots if dead ends and traps. 3 of the rooms contain a puzzle involving the 3 tuning forks. if all 3 riddles are solved correctly the party is given a sword that makes the final room with the boss fight significantly easier.
Fat Kroll's Kave,Single Room Hideaway," A modest, unmarked entryway leads to a dimly lit hall. No longer than needed to get away from the elements, a single room at the end of the hallway is illuminated by firelight. Inside, Kroll; a very fat, greasy and grumbly foe. Always angry, always hungry, Kroll responds to all intruders with yelling and scratching at the doorway to his room. He's too large to escape, after being brought foodstuff from an unknown source, he's trapped. Defeat Kroll, gain his belongings. There is enough space in the room to fight and remember, he's too big to get past the door!"
Vault of the Planes,Arcane Repository," Long ago a wizard was tasked with guarding a small trove of powerful items, and to only give them to those who prove worthy. He built an small pocket dimension as a vault with a long-forgotten entrance. When the adventurers discover the place he is willing to part with some of the treasures. However, in addition to the group proving themselves worthy, he requires entertainment of some kind, because he bound his soul to the vault shortly before death and has been bored ever since."
The Dark Sepulcher of The Old Queen,Decrepit Royal Crypt," This sepulcher was created for the realm's queen long ago as she was dying. On her deathbed, mercenaries burst in and kidnapped her, taking her to the nearly-finished crypt. There, a necromancer planned to use her body for an undead experiment, but it went awry. With her dying breath, she cursed the sepulcher with undeath. She passed away, but - filled with rage - returned from the dead and killed the necromancer and his henchmen. Legend says they're still down there, shambling through the halls."
Scorched Rock Temple,Temple of Cultist of Fire," Deep inside Fires of Life (Volcanic Mountain), lies a sprawling temple dedicated to a long forgotten deity of fire. First to bring civilization to the humanoid populations, these previous miners, settlers, and blacksmiths had uncovered a terrible secret. Bonding with the elemental plane of fire, they slowly became more industrious. Over a period of many years, they slowed the amount of trade coming out of the mountain. Not long after, no one who went to see what became of the settlers came back. Inside is a sprawling city, devoted to the worship of fire. A crucible at the heart of the city feeds the forges, where they create not weapons of steel, or iron, but weapons of fire. Flame elementals roam the city streets, the people themselves are devoid of hair, many more have harvested the power of fire into powerful magic. Broken into quarters this city houses 6,000 fiery souls, and untold elementals. The crucible at the center of the magma chamber is used for worship 4 times a day. As they mine deeper into the mountain, seeking to create a physical connection to the elemental plane of fire. This is displacing typical cavernous creatures. Umberhulks, goblins, kobolds, druegar, dwarves, and illithid. Leading to multiple factions, and multiple nooks and crannies to fill with all sorts of motivations."
Troll Cave and under complex,"Small cave system, where the rear has collapsed into a ancient Stone Giant Prison"," Eons ago during the time of Giants, before their empires were destroyed by the coming of dragons, Stone Giants of the land created many wonders. This prison was one of them. Carved deep underground, it was made to hold some of the worst enemies of their Empire, and even darker forces. Ages past, and giants were scattered to the winds, their kingdoms gone, their cities charred rubble. The prison remained, forgotten underground. Many prisoners were left to starve in their cells. Some, bound by ancient and powerful magic live on, suspended in time by their heavy stone manacles. In the deepest levels a red glow can be seen, and mad roaring heard. Great and powerful demons were caught and bound here, to be shackled eternally."
The Patchwork Dragon,Dragon's Cave, A gang of previously harmless kobolds begins raiding villages with the help of an odd looking dragon. A single young dragon is captured by hunters after a raid and they discover the Dragon is actually a rogue modron in a dragon costume...
Belly of the Purple Worm,A Shifting Dungeon," Your PC's are offered by the cult of the purple Worm, they are swallowed whole, now they must fight there way through the the beast itself. Encountering lost civilizations, whole town swallowed whole, as well as many creatures who have also been devoured by the Purple Worm."
Temple of the Silver Blades,"Temple Ruins, Shadow/Plant theme"," The Silent Vales are governed by a druidic council of Elves, Lizardfolk and Men, but half a millennia ago they were entirely under the dominion of the Council of Thorns. An elite order of spies and killers enforced their will, eliminating trespassers and silently removing threats to elven sovereignity. A spate of recent murders among high-ranking druids and shamans has the council on edge- something is stalking the leylines between sacred sites, emerging in their inner sanctums to dispatch its victims quickly and quietly. Rumor has it the Silver Blades were capable of travelling in such a manner, but the order was destroyed centuries ago, their temple crumbling and overgrown, predatory plants and feral beasts lurking in the ruins. None remain that possess the skills and knowledge of the Silver Blades... right?"
The House of Light,"Cliffside Monastery, Light/Wind theme"," For the first time in years, the orcish tribes in the western badlands have sent emissaries to the border, suing for peace. The only problem is, the colonial authorities have no idea what they're talking about- the border has seen very little conflict for over a decade now, and neither side has been keen to start anything. Rumors trickle in, though, of pilgrims and devotees of Pelor flocking to a once-abandoned temple on the edge of orcish lands, of a holy army of spirits led by a resurrected paladin, and of something rocketing through the skies, sundering tribal camps with rays of searing light. Who is this knight, and why are they trying to restart a vicious campaign that ended centuries ago?"
Emberhold Awakened,"Dwarven forge-complex, Machines & Magma theme"," The Embershard clan has been nursing a bitter grudge ever since their clan was exiled from the hold generations ago. Successful mercenaries and northern traders, their clan lord has recently mobilised a large number of clansmen and machinery. They travel by longship to the north, along the coast of the Worldspine mountains, in a bid to reclaim an ancient forge-complex built and operated by their forefathers. The complex is accessed through a fjord leading into the heart of Goliath territory- and worse, the entrance sits at the base of the Skyshard, the tallest mountain on the continent and the stone-skins most sacred holy site. The peace between native Goliath and colonial dwarves can be fragile at times, but the Embershards' actions may provoke a full-blown war unless the party stops them from reawakening the forge, and the fury of the arcane war machines that lay dormant within."
The Hyperborean Orrery,"Frozen-over Mage's Research Facility, Ice/Magic theme"," The last of the four heroes, the Archmage travelled far to the north to establish a research facility, from which she conducted magical experiments and educated those talented enough to reach her. The complex sits on a small island in the middle of a frozen lake, an expanse of ice that stretches for miles in every direction. After almost a century, however, communications stopped coming from the Orrery, and the pass that led to it was rendered inaccessible thanks to weather, landslides and a tribe of Goliath taking up residence. For those fool enough to travel the distance and brave the elements, there may be riches and knowledge beyond imagining. But the facility, half-buried in snow, crumbling walls exposed to the howling blizzards, is dangerous in itself. Traps, enchantments and magical constructs still defend the corpse-littered halls, and lost experiments may lurk in the wings, seething with madness and hatred. Worse, something pulses with arcane power and malevolent intelligence at the bottom of the facility, a chamber suspended within the depths of the frigid lake..."
Solipzoa,Gargantuan space creature," A creature that clasps onto buildings and planets, slowly driving the inhabitants insane. It can be controlled by the master who is able to command it psionically while residing in it's stomach. It keeps parasites inside it's body to get rid of the intruders it can see or taste within it's body. One way to keep intruders out is a sphincter full of teeth and eyes. One eye has a sensitive nerve that, when closed, will open the sphincter."
The Bifurcated Forks of Mentat,Extradimensional Maze," Mentat was a Psionicist and Diviner of great skill. He constructed this structure as a means to explore the possibilities of his past choices and those yet to come. His enemies took advantage of his meditative state while there and slew him unleashing the bound energies he was manipulating. Now the temple is an inhospitable place of strange angles, doors that lead to places they cannot, and rooms that should be impossible. It is said that anyone foolish enough to enter will face every mistake they've ever made come to life."
Tijd's Laboratory,Magical Laboratory," This is Tijd's Laboratory, constructed in a customised pocket dimension by Tijd himself, where he could do experiments on time-based magic in peace. The building is a 3 by 3 square of rooms, but in each room are two orbs that, when touched, transport you either into the far future or the far past of that room. The entry/exit is in the middle room of the 'present' slice. Tijd himself appears, frozen in some kind of magical crystal, in this room -- and the orb that takes you to this room's past is missing! This dungeon is one giant puzzle (with many potentially dangerous magical effects), as players have to find a way to get back to the past of the middle room, where Tijd is (presumably) about to accidentally seal himself in stasis, and rescue him!"
Dudek's Tower,Abandoned Tower/Glacier," This is an abandoned watchtower in the mountain passes that has slowly been buried by snow and ice -- it lies, half-leaning, half-toppled, back upon a steep slope of ice and rock. To scale the tower, you must pick your way both through ruined and crumpled rooms, and through caves and tunnels in the tumble of icy boulders behind. At the top lives a young white dragon, whose hoard includes a cursed sword..."
Grey Murk,Evil Swamp," This wetland lies near the old abandoned castle of the Grey family. Stories are still told of the gruesome murder of the Lord's family, and his descent into madness afterwards. Now a sinister presence fills the air here, and dancing lights through the mossy trees lure unlucky travellers to their dooms. Those who lose their way and die in this place rise up not long after as an undead. In the centre is a sunken crypt. Who is buried there?"

Room Name,Room Description

The Shrine of the Lost God," On a pedestal there is a a shining golden idol of the Lost God of the Tangledark tribe. A stone staircase leads up to the pedestal. Feature: Around the walls are pictographs using an incomprehensible set of symbols. Along the east wall is a mural that appears to be depicting the apotheosis of a cat-headed being.
Feature: Sunlight streams green and gold through the shafts in the ceiling, filtering through the overgrown jungle trees.
Trap: Poisoned darts fly from the east wall when you step on the third, sixth, and ninth steps while climbing toward the idol.
Trap: If you take the golden idol, a rolling boulder trap triggers from the west wall.
Monster: A swarm of spiders have made a cozy nest of webs in the northwest corner, near the ceiling.
"
The Burial Chamber of Sir Gordan the Green," Behind the heavy stone slab and down a set of narrow stairs is a small bare chamber with empty wall sconces and a large stone coffin. Feature: The coffin bears the inscription, ""Here lies Gordan, Sword of the Realm, Hero of the Battle of West Vale and the Battle of Harstone Pass, b. 1178, d. 1239""
Monster: Sir Gordan is cursed, he animates as a wight on nights of the new moon. On all other nights, he lies peacefully in his coffin and is indistinguishable from a normal corpse.
Treasure: Sir Gordan has been buried with a finely-crafted steel longsword with gilding on the guard and a large emerald (2,000 sp) embedded in the pommel.
"
Spruce Spanner's Cogwheel Emporium," Just beyond the plain wooden door lie dozens of rows of tiny, clockwork objects. Clicks and ticks echo throughout the room as toys and other marvels whir to life. Feature: Behind the counter stands a large clockwork golem dressed in fine silk clothing. A black with white trim top hat adorns his head.
Trap: Near the doors to the stock and equipment rooms are two small metal plates built into the wall. In the center of the plates lie tiny circular keyholes. Should anyone try to force open the door or pick the lock without the proper key, an electric current is rigged to blast from the plates into the intruder.
Hazard: The clockwork golem, while generally a peaceful servant and helper, will spring to life should the shop be in danger. Hidden under his suit coat are 2 spring loaded hand crossbows that are rigged to propel into his hands at a moment's notice. Behind the counter there's a large maul - far too heavy for ordinary men - should he require it.
Treasure: Aside from the wondrous toys and gizmos, there's one piece in particular that catches the eye. It's a small butterfly like machination that's been enchanted to fly. Its wings are beautifully inlaid with gold and turquoise.
"
Sphax's Cave of Destiny," Home to a mad, would-be god, this ordinary cave is littered with pebbles and stones. In the center is a plain wooden chair. Feature: The Cave of Destiny is heavily enchanted. Beings who enter the room are immediately thrown the the ceiling as gravity reverses.
Hazard: Up is down - down is up. When gravity reverses, the once still rocks and pebbles fling upwards to rest on the ceiling. The chair, however, stays put.
Monster: This room belongs the Sphax, the would-be god of Chaos. He thinks himself mighty, and has the powers to oftentimes prove it, but he seldom resorts to violence. Sphax loves to sit and have a nice chat with anyone he runs across - until they anger him that is. His diminutive gnomish frame should not be mistaken for being frail. Though he may dress like a peasant and sit and talk with newcomers, Spahx is a very dangerous being...when he feels like being one, that is.
"
Costrin Spawning Pools," Situated in the roots of a massive mangrove, the larva of a primitive jungle race are maturing in the muddy pits dug into the soft ground. Feature: A circular dam of mud and sticks built into the exterior roots holds the surrounding swamp at bay and marks the boundary of the room, but enough water leaks through to keep the whole room muddy.
Monster: The adult Costrin, in their typical brutality, have trapped a Giant Frog in the room to weed out the weak larvae.
Hazard: The floor is pockmarked with pits, each about 5 feet deep and 3 feet in diameter. Each has a few hideously squirming Costrin larvae in it, except one which instead has a pupa and the half eaten corpse of a Giant Frog. Step in a pit and you may just lose a foot to the carnivorous larvae.
Treasure: Each larva has a heavy weight chained to a piercing in its exoskeleton, intended to keep it in the pit until it sheds the shell and becomes a free roaming pupa. The weights are each formed from 10-15 pounds of iron, which may be worth something to a metallurgist.
"
Modron Factory 7882 - Plating Room," This blisteringly hot room is mostly occupied by a massive automated production line, which in this room applies plating to monodrones. Feature: The room is mostly filled with a straight metal path, with countless modrons marching along it. The path begins in a further on room, and the monodrones continue marching through a hole in the wall into the previous room. Large machine arms work on the modrons.
Monster: There are several tridrones guarding the assembly line. The monodrones are still awaiting higher programming, but could be a danger if you get in the way of their ceaseless march through the assembly line.
Hazard: Huge clockwork arms swing around the room, grabbing pieces from piles and adding them to the unplated modrons marching from a hole in the far wall.
Treasure: The brass, bronze, and silver plates could be immensely valuable.
"
The Room of Deafness and Blindness," Entering into the room, the party sees coffins lining the wall. A metal statue on the opposite side of the room glows with a strange light. The statue if of a blind god, and its eyes are covered with a cloth. As the players enter, their vision becomes cloudy and the ambient sounds dwindle into nothingness. Feature: The players are completely blinded and deafened due to the magical aura emanating from the statue.
 Feature: The players are completely blinded and deafened due to the magical aura emanating from the statue. Feature: The statue pulses once per round, causing blindness and deafness.
 Feature: The statue pulses once per round, causing blindness and deafness. Monster: Two ghouls immediately break free from the coffins. The ghouls are blind, and have enlarged ears and fingers. They can wall climb and have tremorsense.
 Monster: Two ghouls immediately break free from the coffins. The ghouls are blind, and have enlarged ears and fingers. They can wall climb and have tremorsense. Feature: Significantly failing a stealth check or making large noises causes additional ghouls to rise from the coffins in the room. For DMs: anything the players say at the table immediately gets translated in-game.
 Feature: Significantly failing a stealth check or making large noises causes additional ghouls to rise from the coffins in the room. For DMs: anything the players say at the table immediately gets translated in-game. Feature: Striking the statue with a metal object causes the statue to ring, which will stun nearby ghouls for 1 round.
 Feature: Striking the statue with a metal object causes the statue to ring, which will stun nearby ghouls for 1 round. Feature: The effects of blindness and deafness can only be completely defeated if the players destroy the statue.
 Feature: The effects of blindness and deafness can only be completely defeated if the players destroy the statue. Treasure: The cloth covering the statue is a magical item that grants blindsight for 1d6 rounds per day.
 Treasure: The cloth covering the statue is a magical item that grants blindsight for 1d6 rounds per day."
The Chambers of the Robber Queen," Behind a hidden door is a once lavishly furnished sitting room, now fallen to decay. Feature: Tattered silk hangs from the rafters, frayed tapestries line the walls, and the floor is covered in thick, moss-ridden carpet.
Feature: An opened (and empty) tall cabinet leans drunkenly against the far wall, and a single wooden chair is upright just to the right of the doorway. If there is any other furniture, it has been smashed to kindling.
Hazard: The floor in the center of the room is rotted through, and may collapse into the room below under the weight of more than one adventurer.
Trap: Six wicked-looking darts are embedded in the wall opposite the cabinet, but the mechanism that fired them is no longer functional.
Treasure: The skeletal remains of an unfortunate treasure hunter partially block the doorway, in which can be found a tarnished silver locket (15sp) and a small quantity of gold and silver pieces (2d6 gp, 4d6 sp).
Feature: Careful study of the wooden chair reveals that it is bolted to the floor. If lifted, the rusted hinge mechanism breaks, and reveals a hidden ladder into the room below.
"
The Bat's Mouth," Past a surly bouncer and beyond a sturdier door is a large, smoke-filled chamber. Feature: A massive table - hewn from dark, fine grained wood - fills most of the room, with heavy chairs constructed from brass and stained leather placed at regular intervals around it.
Feature: Heavy velvet drapes are pulled across large picture windows on the East wall, as well as the area at the back of the room.
Monster: A Gargoyle perches on a ledge above the door, and will attack anything that doesn't wear a badge of the Brotherhood of the Bat's Mouth.
Monster: Most evenings, the room will be occupied by 2d4 Commoners and 1d4 Veterans in dark robes.
Trap: If any of the drapes are moved, 4d4 Swarms of Bats pour into the room.
Treasure: A locked chest (each Commoner and Veteran has a 10% chance of carrying the key) in the curtained-off area contains gems totalling 300gp in value, 1000 gold pieces, and Wings of Flying
"
The Displaced Throne," The caves open into an enormous room split in half by a strange line of runes, with natural stone floors and walls abruptly becoming the fine stonework and furnishings of an opulent throne room Feature: At the center of the far wall is a throne backed by an enormous stained glass window, sunlight streaming in. On the throne is a golden crown.
Feature: Two sets of armor flank the throne. Upon crossing the runic threshold they spring to life and attack the players
Monster: Two Helmed Horrors are disguised as suits of armor will attack any intruders, chasing them across the runes if need be.
Treasure: On the throne is a magnificent jeweled crown. This is actually a Helm of Teleportation
"
Old Dragons Lair," This enormous cavern resembles a giants furnace, blackened and charred from a heat so intense the stones were left melted and cracked. Scattered across the floor are mounds of metallic slag. Features: Massive mounds of melted gold and steel, the remnants of a dragons horde, create a mixture of difficult and impassible terrain.
Monsters: Several Thrikeen oversee some domesticated Rust Monsters excavating melted metal slurry.
Treasure: The rust monsters have eaten into the center of one of the mounds, revealing several gemstones that were protected from the heat by the melted metal shell.
"
Guards of the Brothel of the Lancer's Tilt," (Not quite a dungeon, but it fits the theme based upon my definition) The Lancer's Tilt is a is a very upscale, themed brothel. The sign shows a knight with his lance, positioned in a suggestive manner, poking up the skirt of a maiden. Upstairs is the brothel proper for paying members only. A maître d'hôtel stands behind a desk upstairs and greets clients. Inside the brothel is a band, a bar, bouncers and upscale clientele. The floors are carpeted, there are tapestries, and various colorful suits of armor and weaponry adorn the walls. The workers at the brothel are all dressed thematically, but suggestively: low-cut cuirasses, leather thongs, adventurer's packs, plate metal bras, etc. Feature: The maître d'hôtel has a small runic stone of AntiMagic Field behind the desk he stands at.
 Feature: The maître d'hôtel has a small runic stone of AntiMagic Field behind the desk he stands at. Feature: Destroying the runic stone dispels the AntiMagic field. The maître d'hôtel will crush the stone if he feels threatened or attacked.
 Feature: Destroying the runic stone dispels the AntiMagic field. The maître d'hôtel will crush the stone if he feels threatened or attacked. Monster: The carpeting on the floor is a Rug of Smothering. It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place.
 Monster: The carpeting on the floor is a Rug of Smothering. It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place. Monster: The wall tapestries are flying Rugs of Smothering. It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place.
 Monster: The wall tapestries are flying Rugs of Smothering. It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place. Monster: The suits of colorful armor decorating the room are Animated Armors. It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place.
 Monster: The suits of colorful armor decorating the room are Animated Armors. It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place. Monster: The weapons on the wall are animated flying weapons (flying sword, flying mace, etc.). It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place.
 Monster: The weapons on the wall are animated flying weapons (flying sword, flying mace, etc.). It remains dormant while the antimagic field is in place. Treasure: The stone of AntiMagic field projects AntiMagic field in a 30 foot radius and lasts for 10 days.
 Treasure: The stone of AntiMagic field projects AntiMagic field in a 30 foot radius and lasts for 10 days. Treasure: The animated armor, weaponry and rugs are exceptional and worth a combined 3,500 gp if they can be properly disenchanted.
 Treasure: The animated armor, weaponry and rugs are exceptional and worth a combined 3,500 gp if they can be properly disenchanted."
The Machinist's Door," Entering in the room, the party sees multiple runic inscriptions on the ground, forming multiple circles. On the far end is a door. To its left are 4 small levers. On the ground are several mechanical parts: cogs, springs, sprockets, etc. The parts are ethereal in nature and not of this world. To the right is a wooden ladder leading up to a platform 20 feet into the air. At the top of that platform are 4 consoles, and each console is in a various state of disrepair. Feature: Touching the parts on the ground causes the parts to materialize. Letting go of them causes the parts to vanish and reappear in the pile.
Feature: To leave the room, the party must repair all 4 consoles, and activate the corresponding levers on the ground. Repairing the machines requires an investigation/tinkering check. The check DC increases from 1 machine to the next.
Monster: Every 3 rounds, clockwork pests (see Monster A Day Manual /r/monsteraday) for specs) materialize from the runic circles in the ground and attack the party. The number of pests increases by 1 every 3 rounds.
Feature: The consoles, if repaired, will break down on their own after 12 rounds, unless their corresponding lever has been activated. Broken down consoles have their parts return to the pile below.
Feature: The levers retract after 1 round and the console self-destructs unless a player is actively holding down the lever.
Monster: Every time the players fail the repair or the levers return to their starting position, a group of clockwork pests spawns and attacks.
"
The Sparrow Cleric's Refectory," High, slanted windows lets cool, dust-filtered light into a spare room. Feature: A narrow, rectangular table, with benches along its long sides abuts what appears to be a writing desk on its north end. All have been covered in stained linens that may have been white in a past life.
Feature: Seated at the long table are four crudely shaped clay statues, all dressed in a mishmash of gowns, wimples, cassocks, hijabs, and a host of other religious paraphernalia. Before them are dishes filled with dirty water, dust, and the dessicated remains of a rose bush.
Feature: Seated at the writing desk is a mummified corpse in raiment crafted from cloth of gold, silk, and precious jewels, posed with wires and sticks in a position of blessing.
Trap: If disturbed, the corpse (including its clothing) crumbles to dust, and the statues come to life. Each is a Clay Golem, and will not attack unless attacked first. Rather, they move to block the entryway, and will (non-lethally) attempt to prevent all creatures from leaving the room.
Feature: If the linens are removed from the long table, an inscription is revealed. A player can make a DC18 religion check to read it with the correct pacing and intonation. On a successful check, the golems crumble; on a failure, the golems attack one another, destroying themselves and everything they contain in the process.
Treasure: The remains of the golems contain 8d12 gp worth of silver and gold-wrought ikons, several minor magical items, and a manual of golems.
"
The Puzzle of the Star," (I love this room, because it's a fun challenge and positively wicked at the end!) A 20x20 room is simply decorated and unlit, with two noticeable exceptions. On the ground are several sets of runic inscriptions, written in circles. There is a 3 foot long, wooden table in the room. On the table is a small bag, a rolled up scroll and a small golden circle. Trap: Once the players touch the items on the table, the door they came from shuts magically and locks.
 Trap: Once the players touch the items on the table, the door they came from shuts magically and locks. Feature: The small bag contains 10 small golden coins with unknown markings on them.
 Feature: The small bag contains 10 small golden coins with unknown markings on them. Feature: The scroll, once opened, says the following: In darkness dwells the puzzled mind, That frets and worries and passes time, Ten round coins of gold most pure Lay them in the circle secure When you make five rows of four, A star will light to show the door.
 Feature: The scroll, once opened, says the following: In darkness dwells the puzzled mind, That frets and worries and passes time, Ten round coins of gold most pure Lay them in the circle secure When you make five rows of four, A star will light to show the door. Feature: Once the scroll is touched, a 1 minute (real world!) timer starts.
 Feature: Once the scroll is touched, a 1 minute (real world!) timer starts. Monster: Once 1 minute has gone by, several monsters materialize from the summoning circles and attack. Every additional minute that goes by spawns one more monster than the previous spawn (e.g. 4, then 5, then 6....). I prefer to use stirges or Banelings from the Monster a Day manual (/r/monsteraday). Once the puzzle has been solved, the monsters vanish and no longer spawn.
 Monster: Once 1 minute has gone by, several monsters materialize from the summoning circles and attack. Every additional minute that goes by spawns one more monster than the previous spawn (e.g. 4, then 5, then 6....). I prefer to use stirges or Banelings from the Monster a Day manual (/r/monsteraday). Once the puzzle has been solved, the monsters vanish and no longer spawn. Feature: Solution - Players must use the 10 gold coins to form the shape of a 5 pointed star (5 coins on the outer points, 5 coins on the inner pentagon of the star) inside the golden circle on the table.
 Feature: Solution - Players must use the 10 gold coins to form the shape of a 5 pointed star (5 coins on the outer points, 5 coins on the inner pentagon of the star) inside the golden circle on the table. Treasure: Once the puzzle has been solved, the coin star begins to glow, and a 5 foot door magically appears and opens on the far end of the room. That door leads to a room that is exactly 5 feet by 5 feet. Inside that room is a 2 foot tall pedestal with a magical circlet with upon it. The circlet is gold, inlaid with 2 deep red rubies and a large, deep blue Tanzanite gem in the middle. It is a headband of intellect +2.
 Treasure: Once the puzzle has been solved, the coin star begins to glow, and a 5 foot door magically appears and opens on the far end of the room. That door leads to a room that is exactly 5 feet by 5 feet. Inside that room is a 2 foot tall pedestal with a magical circlet with upon it. The circlet is gold, inlaid with 2 deep red rubies and a large, deep blue Tanzanite gem in the middle. It is a headband of intellect +2. Monster: The pedestal and headband are inside an unmoving gelatinous cube. Reaching into the 5x5 room with the pedestal causes the players to reach into the cube, and the cube will make an ambush attack and suck the player inside it.
 Monster: The pedestal and headband are inside an unmoving gelatinous cube. Reaching into the 5x5 room with the pedestal causes the players to reach into the cube, and the cube will make an ambush attack and suck the player inside it. Monster: The 10 coins in the room are mimics that will awaken and attack if they are removed from the room.
 Monster: The 10 coins in the room are mimics that will awaken and attack if they are removed from the room. Treasure/Trap: The sack that held the coins has a 50% chance to be a miniature Bag of Holding, or a 50% chance to be a miniature Bag of Devouring.
 Treasure/Trap: The sack that held the coins has a 50% chance to be a miniature Bag of Holding, or a 50% chance to be a miniature Bag of Devouring. DM Note: This room is very memorable if you can supply the bag, coins and scroll to the party at the table. I used 10 fake pirate coins from my kids playset, shoved into a dice bag. Also typed up the scroll on a piece of paper."
The Shrine of Suffering," Players enter a 30x30 circular room. The stone walls are grey and bleak, and the floor is blood red. From the ceiling dangle dozens of large chains. The wall is adorned with dozens of iron rings bolted into the stone. These rings appear to be wall restraints for manacles. This appears to be some kind of ritualistic torture chamber. Feature: In the center of the room is a large brazier with a bright burning flame.
 Feature: In the center of the room is a large brazier with a bright burning flame. Feature: On the far end of the room is a large obsidian statue of a goddess, all in black, holding a small bowl of flame in her hands. The flame burns with a bluish intensity and instantly melts flesh and bone if a player touches it. The statue is of Loviatar, the goddess of death.
 Feature: On the far end of the room is a large obsidian statue of a goddess, all in black, holding a small bowl of flame in her hands. The flame burns with a bluish intensity and instantly melts flesh and bone if a player touches it. The statue is of Loviatar, the goddess of death. Feature: On one of the walls is written, in blood, the text: suffer. In very faded text below it is written: for me.
 Feature: On one of the walls is written, in blood, the text: suffer. In very faded text below it is written: for me. Trap: After 1 round, the door they came from magically locks behind them, and the flame in the center burns with a bright blue intensity. The chains in the ceiling animate and attack the players. Each chain attempts to grapple a players' arms (1 chain per arm). Successfully attacking both arms restrains the player and pulls them toward the flame in the center of the room.
 Trap: After 1 round, the door they came from magically locks behind them, and the flame in the center burns with a bright blue intensity. The chains in the ceiling animate and attack the players. Each chain attempts to grapple a players' arms (1 chain per arm). Successfully attacking both arms restrains the player and pulls them toward the flame in the center of the room. Monster: 2 rounds after entering the room, 2 hell hounds appear from the flame in center of the room. Players can defeat the room by destroying the hellhounds.
 Monster: 2 rounds after entering the room, 2 hell hounds appear from the flame in center of the room. Players can defeat the room by destroying the hellhounds. Trap: 2 rounds after entering the room, the flames in the center spread radially out 5 feet, and continue to spread radially 5 feet every round. Standing in the flame deals fire damage.
 Trap: 2 rounds after entering the room, the flames in the center spread radially out 5 feet, and continue to spread radially 5 feet every round. Standing in the flame deals fire damage. Feature: If a player calls out to suffer voluntarily, the flames coalesce back to the center of the room, the chains will release everyone else and wrap around the player from head to toe, and pull the player into the flame in the center of the room. If the player takes damage 3 times as the volunteer (including self-inflicted or from the party), the hellhounds vanish, the flames subside, and the flames in the bowl of the statue vanish.
 Feature: If a player calls out to suffer voluntarily, the flames coalesce back to the center of the room, the chains will release everyone else and wrap around the player from head to toe, and pull the player into the flame in the center of the room. If the player takes damage 3 times as the volunteer (including self-inflicted or from the party), the hellhounds vanish, the flames subside, and the flames in the bowl of the statue vanish. Treasure: The bowl in the statue contains a ring of spell storing, only if a player sacrifices themselves in the room. Otherwise it's empty.
 Treasure: The bowl in the statue contains a ring of spell storing, only if a player sacrifices themselves in the room. Otherwise it's empty."
Hallway of Skulls," A narrow section of a stone hallway with shelves carved into the walls. Seated upon these shelves are skulls of various creatures, some with dried flesh still attached. Trap/Monster Upon reaching the middle of the section, a large skull with gems in it's eye sockets will be seen sitting on one of the shelves. Unfortunately, that means the skull can also see the party. Upon spotting the party, two stone slabs drop on either end of the skull section, as the skulls start swarming around the party members trapped, biting at their flesh. The only way to stop the swarm of biting skulls is to target and destroy the skull with the gems, which is not easy to do as the PCs try to hit one specific skull in a swarm of them, but the vengeful spirit within it is responsible for animating the other skulls.
 Trap/Monster Upon reaching the middle of the section, a large skull with gems in it's eye sockets will be seen sitting on one of the shelves. Unfortunately, that means the skull can also see the party. Upon spotting the party, two stone slabs drop on either end of the skull section, as the skulls start swarming around the party members trapped, biting at their flesh. The only way to stop the swarm of biting skulls is to target and destroy the skull with the gems, which is not easy to do as the PCs try to hit one specific skull in a swarm of them, but the vengeful spirit within it is responsible for animating the other skulls. Treasure Once the skull with the gems is destroyed, the two gems turn out to be quite valuable.
 Treasure Once the skull with the gems is destroyed, the two gems turn out to be quite valuable."
Caught between a Blob and a Sharp Place," The hallway appears rather ordinary. It's 40 feet long and 15 feet high. The floors and walls are fine stonework. The ceiling is wooden, and well decorated with intricate carvings. The hallway turns 90 degrees at the end and appears to continue on. Trap: At one point in the hallway there are a pair of blades that are triggered by the slightest movement. The set of blades extract from between the stonework wall at a height of approximately 3-5 feet, extending perpendicular to the ground.
 Trap: At one point in the hallway there are a pair of blades that are triggered by the slightest movement. The set of blades extract from between the stonework wall at a height of approximately 3-5 feet, extending perpendicular to the ground. Trap: At a second point in the hallway there are a pair of blades that are triggered by the slightest movement. The set of blades extract from between the stonework wall at a height of approximately 1-3 feet, extending perpendicular to the ground.
 Trap: At a second point in the hallway there are a pair of blades that are triggered by the slightest movement. The set of blades extract from between the stonework wall at a height of approximately 1-3 feet, extending perpendicular to the ground. Trap: At a third point in the hallway there are a pair of blades that are triggered by the slightest movement. The set of blades extract from between the stonework floor and extend 12 feet into the air.
 Trap: At a third point in the hallway there are a pair of blades that are triggered by the slightest movement. The set of blades extract from between the stonework floor and extend 12 feet into the air. Feature: Around the corner of the far end (past the 90 degree bend) of the hallway is a control panel. The panel has 4 control levers: 1 up, 1 down, 1 up, 1 down. The levers appear old and rusted in place. Some effort is required to move the levers. Three of the levers will lock the blades into position. The fourth lever controls an additional trap.
 Feature: Around the corner of the far end (past the 90 degree bend) of the hallway is a control panel. The panel has 4 control levers: 1 up, 1 down, 1 up, 1 down. The levers appear old and rusted in place. Some effort is required to move the levers. Three of the levers will lock the blades into position. The fourth lever controls an additional trap. Trap/Monster: Activating the wrong lever causes the ceiling to open at the opposite end of the hallway (where the party starts), dropping a gelatinous cube into the hall.
 Trap/Monster: Activating the wrong lever causes the ceiling to open at the opposite end of the hallway (where the party starts), dropping a gelatinous cube into the hall. Treasure: The gelatinous cube contains a +1 dagger inside its body.
 Treasure: The gelatinous cube contains a +1 dagger inside its body."
The isle of Vuraal," This is a round room about fifty feet across with a dome ceiling. Circling the room along the wall is a narrow ledge about a foot wide that is separated from the floor by a two foot gap. The floor itself is a circular disc. Feature: Peering into the gap that separates the floor from the walls reveals a deep pit with hundreds of sharp stalagmites piercing upward.
Monster: Vuraal, the hooded assassin cloaked in silken robes stands in the center of the room. He is highly skilled, carries sharply honed daggers, and will fight to the death to prevent your passage through his chamber.
Trap: The floor of this room is a large circular disc balanced precariously on a giant central pivot from below. In order to stand on it safely, weight must be evenly distributed across it's surface. Fighting the assassin should prove immensely difficult.
Hazard: If the disk tilts far enough that you slide off it's edge, you will land in a pit of spikes.
Treasure: Passage through this chamber will be your reward.
"
Skeleton Cafe," In the midst of an otherwise dangerous dungeon, one finds a door with a sign that says ""Skeleton Cafe"" and another sign which reads ""OPEN"". The door knob opens easily and within lies a most unexpected jazz cafe. A small stage has a three piece lounge jazz band. There is a bar with a bartender. Everyone is a friendly skeleton. It's a small cafe, only three tables. Each table has four chairs. There are no customers. It is always open for ""business"". Feature: Very relaxing atmosphere. If possible, DM should play some light jazz audio at this time.
Monster: The skeletons are just regular skeletons. They are friendly and the bartender speaks with a slight southern drawl. Bartender introduces himself as ""Bone Daddy"" and offers the party drinks on the house from a selection of liquors on a shelf behind him. They are genuinely friendly (Neutral Good). If attacked, they will simply panic and plead for their life.
Trap: None, but the chairs are suspiciously plush and comfortable, and the bartender offers unlimited drinks which are suspiciously free and tasty.
Hazard: Open bar will feed players drinks until they get shit faced, if they keep asking for more booze.
Treasure: A safe spot to relax and enjoy a leisurely long rest can be a treasure unto itself.
"
Button Room," A completely empty, featureless 50 x 50 foot square-shaped room. In the centre of the floor is a pedestal. On the pedestal is a single large red button. On the wall, painted in huge block letters, are the words ""DO NOT PUSH"" DC 15 perception check will notice an array of 100 small valves across the ceiling (one over each 5' square). Feature: Nothing, really. There is nothing, nothing but the temptation of a single red button..
Trap: If the button is pushed, a massive gout of fire shoots downward out of the ceiling valves as a reaction. Flames fill the entire room, there is nowhere to go in terms of dodging the 10d6 fire damage. Trap resets each round and can be triggered over and over again if players keep pushing the button.
Treasure: None.
"
WARNING," I've used a variation of the tempting button room: When players enter the doors shut and lock and a voice begins to count down from 10. Whenever a player pushes the button, the voice resets itself back to 10. If they ever let the voice count all the way there's 10 seconds of silence and then the doors open. There were no traps and no effects other than the frustration of players to delay the seemingly inevitable."
The Cavern at the end of Shatterstone Mine," There are three wooden support beams that hold the ceiling from collapsing in this dank, torch-lit cavern at the end of Shatterstone Mine. The air is slightly moist and leaves a burning sensation in the back of your throat like you've been inhaling some sort of chemical. Feature: In the center of the room there is a mound of some black, tar-like substance that is being added to by a gaggle of dwarven miners spread thinly about the room. They walk to the walls of the cavern, carve out more of it, and bring it to the mound.
 Feature: In the center of the room there is a mound of some black, tar-like substance that is being added to by a gaggle of dwarven miners spread thinly about the room. They walk to the walls of the cavern, carve out more of it, and bring it to the mound. Monster: The dwarven miners in this room are mindless. You've probably fought a few of them leading up to this point, but these are different. They seem to be completely oblivious to your party as you enter. Each of them walks, slowly and steadily from the mound, to the wall and back again staring blankly ahead as they do so. If spoken to, they do not respond. If attacked, they fall easily and do not retaliate.
 Monster: The dwarven miners in this room are mindless. You've probably fought a few of them leading up to this point, but these are different. They seem to be completely oblivious to your party as you enter. Each of them walks, slowly and steadily from the mound, to the wall and back again staring blankly ahead as they do so. If spoken to, they do not respond. If attacked, they fall easily and do not retaliate. Trap: If a creature other than the miners in the room touches the mound a green wave of energy, originating from the mound, courses through the room like a ripple. Each creature inside the cavern must make a DC13 dexterity saving throw to attempt to duck under the pulse. On fail, the creature takes 2d6 acid damage (halved on save). This instantly kills any remaining dwarven miners in this room.
 Trap: If a creature other than the miners in the room touches the mound a green wave of energy, originating from the mound, courses through the room like a ripple. Each creature inside the cavern must make a DC13 dexterity saving throw to attempt to duck under the pulse. On fail, the creature takes 2d6 acid damage (halved on save). This instantly kills any remaining dwarven miners in this room. Monster: When the trap mentioned above is set off, or when all of the dwarven miners who are feeding the mound die, the mound begins to rise and take shape. Eventually, standing in the center of the room is a vaguely humanoid shaped golem made entirely of the thick, black substance the miners were bringing it. It attacks the players and, if you need it to be a bit of a challenge, has the acid nova ability described above on a recharge of 5-6.
 Monster: When the trap mentioned above is set off, or when all of the dwarven miners who are feeding the mound die, the mound begins to rise and take shape. Eventually, standing in the center of the room is a vaguely humanoid shaped golem made entirely of the thick, black substance the miners were bringing it. It attacks the players and, if you need it to be a bit of a challenge, has the acid nova ability described above on a recharge of 5-6."
The Room of Misdirection," Appears to be a normal study. A plain desk sits against the back wall, upon it, an assortment of open books and scrolls illuminated by a plain wax candle. A bookcase adorns the back wall to the left of the desk, stacked to the brim with miscellaneous books. Several crates overflowing with large scrolls are stacked to the right of the desk and On the wall above the desk hangs a decorative shield sitting upon two crossed swords. On the floor sits an unassuming rug. Feature: On the left hand wall hangs a tapestry depicting a man gripping his head surrounded on all sides by doors. A small makeshift sleeping bag with rotted supplies sits in the corner near the crates. Skeletal remains can be found in the sleeping bag, bones picked clean.
On the left hand wall hangs a tapestry depicting a man gripping his head surrounded on all sides by doors.
A small makeshift sleeping bag with rotted supplies sits in the corner near the crates. Skeletal remains can be found in the sleeping bag, bones picked clean.
Monster: two mimics disguised as the trap door and desk.
two mimics disguised as the trap door and desk.
Traps: Bookcase is a secret door. If swords are removed from shield then a secret passage opens up in righthand wall Trap Door under rug (mimic is disguised as trap door, however the passageway still exists beneath it). Primary door is affected by the magic of the room. Secret chute behind tapestry
 Traps: Bookcase is a secret door.
If swords are removed from shield then a secret passage opens up in righthand wall
Trap Door under rug (mimic is disguised as trap door, however the passageway still exists beneath it).
Primary door is affected by the magic of the room.
Secret chute behind tapestry
Hazard: All exits in this room take the player to a random location in the dungeon. Once an exit in the room has been used it's exit location becomes fixed for 1 hour. Eg. If a player uses the chute behind the tapestry and appears in the dungeon kitchen then for the next hour the tapestry chute will only lead to the kitchen. Whenever a creature walks through a doorway they have not been through in at least 10 minutes they must roll a D20, on a 1 that player does emerge on the other side of the door and instead appears inside the Room of Misdirection.
 Hazard: All exits in this room take the player to a random location in the dungeon.
Once an exit in the room has been used it's exit location becomes fixed for 1 hour. Eg. If a player uses the chute behind the tapestry and appears in the dungeon kitchen then for the next hour the tapestry chute will only lead to the kitchen.
Whenever a creature walks through a doorway they have not been through in at least 10 minutes they must roll a D20, on a 1 that player does emerge on the other side of the door and instead appears inside the Room of Misdirection.
Treasure: A diary can be looted from the Desk mimic detailing the previous adventurer's experience with the room.
 Treasure: A diary can be looted from the Desk mimic detailing the previous adventurer's experience with the room."
Testing Lab," In a room full of worktables and shelves are various jars with what appear to be liquids in them. Feature: The room contains what appears to be tools similar to alchemical equipment.
Monster: The liquids in the jars are not liquids, but rather Oozes and Slimes.
Trap: A scroll tube is locked and chained to one of the desks. Opening said tube causes a shrieking noise to fill the room, possibly shattering any glass objects the party is carrying, and definitely shattering all those jars full of Oozes and Slimes.
Treasure: Some of the equipment is actually alchemical equipment, and can be used by a PC alchemist or sold.
"
A River Runs Through It," This large natural cavern is littered with stalactites and stalagmites but its most notable feature is the underground river that runs through its center. Being 15' wide, it would be difficult to cross if it were not for the wooden bridge that crosses it. On the other side, glaring angrily at you is a small band of hobgoblins with their bows drawn. Feature: A well constructed wooden bridge leads to the other side of the swift river.
Trap: One of the planks in the bridge is the trigger to a poison gas trap.
Monster: A band of hobgolins are prepared with their bows to strike.
"
The Boiler Room," A clamorous room whose removable planks hide a still-operating machine. Its purpose is unknown. Feature: A great clamor fills this room, the grinding of gears, the thumping of pistons, and the hiss of steam all mixes into a terrifying cacaphony. You stand no chance of hearing anything that doesn't want to be heard (in 5e language: any creatures in the room have disadvantage on perception rolls relying on hearing.)
Hazard: Through holes in the aging wooden floor, three sets of huge metal rods rise, whirring and crossing. They seem easily capable of crushing anything unfortunate enough to find itself between them.
Trap: Stepping on a misplaced board near one of the sets of rods could send you onto the floor below.
Treasure: Removing the planks reveals the rest of the machine, a massive flywheel spins, controlled by an intricate series of whirling regulators. It is obvious that many could prove quite valuable. If only you could find a way to turn the machine off.
Trap: One of the more valuable parts happens to be holding the pressure of the boiler in. Those who would try to remove it are likely to get a faceful of hot steam.
"
A Labyrinthian Space," In pitch darkness, walls shift and space bends. Feature: Upon entering the room, your torch goes out, as though affected by the Darkness spell. Moments later, the spell is lifted, but turning around, you find naught but a plain wall.
 Feature: Upon entering the room, your torch goes out, as though affected by the Darkness spell. Moments later, the spell is lifted, but turning around, you find naught but a plain wall. Hazard: Whenever not in view, a wall can shift. It can open into a hall, or make a doorway disappear.
 Hazard: Whenever not in view, a wall can shift. It can open into a hall, or make a doorway disappear. Feature: Leaving the room through any of the doors is unlikely to leave you where you started. Instead, you may find yourself in a completely different area of the dungeon. Or perhaps many miles away. Its machinations are unknowable, but perhaps not entirely random.
 Feature: Leaving the room through any of the doors is unlikely to leave you where you started. Instead, you may find yourself in a completely different area of the dungeon. Or perhaps many miles away. Its machinations are unknowable, but perhaps not entirely random. Feature: Upon leaving the Labyrinthian Space, running through the door you just left is unlikely to bring you back into it, as such spaces are transient and can shift in a blink of an eye.
 Feature: Upon leaving the Labyrinthian Space, running through the door you just left is unlikely to bring you back into it, as such spaces are transient and can shift in a blink of an eye."
The Black Pool," The room is a round, natural, cavernous space with a tall ceiling. The center of the cavern is separated by an oval filled with black water. On the opposite side is a tunnel, leading deeper into the dungeon. Feature: The walls are too smooth to have formed naturally, and are clean. Suspended just over the ""water"" and splitting the room in half is a Wall of Force.
Monster: The black ""Water"" is actually a black pudding ooze.
Trap:
Hazard: Players attempting to cross the water without touching it will strike the Wall of Force and fall right into the ooze.
Treasure: The ooze's past victim's belongings sit at the bottom of the pit occupied by the ooze, mostly tarnished and beyond recognition or value.
"
The Greenhouse," Likely not to be an expected interior feature, this square room smells of damp earth. It's the temperature of an autumn day, and lit by a tiny sun fixed to the high ceiling. Feature: The room is a self-contained, miniature forest for an agoraphobe, complete with the ability to rain or snow on command. Small trees, bushes, shrubs, and grass fill it, except for the five feet of hardwood that ring the room.
Monster: None, at first.
Trap: Several summoning traps fill the room with frogs, insects, animals, and reptiles of varying strength and size. Most leave intruders alone if they're left alone.
Hazard: Some of the plants are dangerous, and release spores or are just intelligent and ambulatory enough to trip and restrain.
Treasure: None; animals summoned return to their native planes on death, and any plants removed from the room quickly wither.
"
The Suspended Ceiling," This room is several floors up in a wizard's tower, but not yet the top floor. It is a round room approximately 25 feet in diameter, with a heavy stone ceiling only 8 feet above the floor. Feature: There are windows on the east and west side.
Feature: A wide staircase curves around the outer wall leading up from the floor below and continuing on up to the next floor. The staircase stretches 24 feet around the perimeter, with no railing. The ceiling opens up for the last 16 feet of the staircase. Tall explorers may have to duck to avoid bumping their head as they go up the stairs. Feature: Eight black rods jut out from the walls at regular intervals around the room. They rise at a 45 degree angle, from about 6 foot height, up toward the ceiling. Each rod is 2 feet long and they appear to hold up the ceiling. Closer inspection reveals that they each end anywhere from 4 to 6 inches short of the ceiling. Further inspection reveals a small button near the bottom end of each rod, and a successful arcana check will recognize them as immovable rods.
Feature: Eight black rods jut out from the walls at regular intervals around the room. They rise at a 45 degree angle, from about 6 foot height, up toward the ceiling. Each rod is 2 feet long and they appear to hold up the ceiling. Closer inspection reveals that they each end anywhere from 4 to 6 inches short of the ceiling. Further inspection reveals a small button near the bottom end of each rod, and a successful arcana check will recognize them as immovable rods.
 These rods constitute the room's treasure and its trap. Pressing the button releases the rod. Players may remove up to 4 rods safely, but it takes 4 rods to hold the ceiling up. The several inches between the rods and the ceiling are an invisible magical buffer to evenly distribute the weight of the upper floors. If a fifth rod is removed, the ceiling above gives a groaning screech and begins to slide downward. Players must immediately replace a rod, within the six inch buffer. Failing that, the ceiling hits the remaining rods, destroying them. The players must then replace four rods, simultaneously, within the buffer. To accomplish this, roll 4 dex throws. All 4 rolls must fall within a range equal to the sum total of dex bonuses of all characters involved in the attempt. Failing that, hope the players can make it to the stairs or windows. This room may be populated with any other furnishing or treasure, but if the ceiling falls, all will be crushed."
The Captain's Quarters," Walking into the candle-lit room, you feel the wooden boards creak beneath your feet and take in the medium-sized room where the captain spends his time. Quills and ink lie on the large wooden desk in the far corner of the room and dim moonlight shines through the single window on your left. Feature: A map table lies immediately to the left of the doorway, at a glance you see the familiar lands marked with a number of small pins denoting cities and trading ports. On a second look, you notice a few islands on the map you don't recognize.
 Feature: A map table lies immediately to the left of the doorway, at a glance you see the familiar lands marked with a number of small pins denoting cities and trading ports. On a second look, you notice a few islands on the map you don't recognize. Treasure: Just below the window is a large wooden chest, sealed with a sturdy iron lock.
 Treasure: Just below the window is a large wooden chest, sealed with a sturdy iron lock. Feature: A number of letters are stacked neatly at the edge of the captain's desk, sealed in wax, awaiting delivery when the ship docks next.
 Feature: A number of letters are stacked neatly at the edge of the captain's desk, sealed in wax, awaiting delivery when the ship docks next."
The Tinkerer's Chest," The room has a solid grate in its center. Scorch marks mar the floor and walls. There is a very solid iron door that seems to slide into place. Feature: Towards the back of the room there is a large chest with 5 leavers: one red, one blue, one green, one white and one black. There does not seem to be any visible seams on the chest itself.
Trap: As soon as a leaver is pulled, the door slams shut and a ticking sound starts. The levers must be pulled in the correct order or all pulled leavers reset and something happens. Note: with 5 levers, if the party is keeping track they risk a max of 10 failures. Reducing it to 4 levers will make 6 the max (remove the red or black). Green leaver: This is the first leaver that needs to be pulled. Nothing bad happens Red leaver: This needs to be pulled 2nd. If the green leaver is not down then a small ball of fire is shot just in front of the chest. 3d6 damage or half on a DC 14 DEX save (advantage on future attempts for knowing what to expect) Black leaver: This needs to be pulled 3rd otherwise the person pulling the leaver suffers 2d10 necrotic damage. A successful DC 15 CON save will half the damage. Blue leaver: This needs to be pulled 4th. There is no immediate damage when this is pulled but water starts pouring into the room from above. The room fills at a rate of 2 feet per minute with the room being completely full within 8 minutes. This does not stop until the chest is opened or the room is filled. The players may need to swim down to the chest if the room fills more than a few feet. White leaver: This leaver needs to be pulled last otherwise a lightning bolt shoots out at a random angle. Those in the line take 1d12 lightning damage or half on a DC 14 DEX save (no advantage of future rolls since the source is random). If the blue leaver is already pulled then anyone currently in the water automatically takes the damage and there is no save.
Green leaver: This is the first leaver that needs to be pulled. Nothing bad happens
Red leaver: This needs to be pulled 2nd. If the green leaver is not down then a small ball of fire is shot just in front of the chest. 3d6 damage or half on a DC 14 DEX save (advantage on future attempts for knowing what to expect)
Black leaver: This needs to be pulled 3rd otherwise the person pulling the leaver suffers 2d10 necrotic damage. A successful DC 15 CON save will half the damage.
Blue leaver: This needs to be pulled 4th. There is no immediate damage when this is pulled but water starts pouring into the room from above. The room fills at a rate of 2 feet per minute with the room being completely full within 8 minutes. This does not stop until the chest is opened or the room is filled. The players may need to swim down to the chest if the room fills more than a few feet.
White leaver: This leaver needs to be pulled last otherwise a lightning bolt shoots out at a random angle. Those in the line take 1d12 lightning damage or half on a DC 14 DEX save (no advantage of future rolls since the source is random). If the blue leaver is already pulled then anyone currently in the water automatically takes the damage and there is no save.
Treasure: Once the leavers are pulled in the right order, the grate in the center of the room opens and drains any water. The top of the chest slides sideways to reveal a small mechanical mouse with a crank on it's back. When winding the mouse, it will lock onto whatever object (or person) is directly in it's vision. It will then attempt to follow/catch them at a speed of 30 ft per turn. Upon reaching it's target (or after 5 minutes whichever is first) it discharges an electrical aura dealing 3d10 lightning damage to those within 5 ft. Recharges once a day.
"

Name,Gender Race Occupation,Description

Mamanto Tharl,Etiquette and Subterfuge," A haughty Elven dandy, Mamanto struts in front of his class, demonstrating how one walks like a noble. Sporting a frilled lilac chemise and skin tight black leggings, Mamanto projects his voice with volume and enunciates every instruction to his students like a real nobleman. ""Walk like them, talk like them or else you'll never get within a mile of them!"" His students try their best to focus, but his overpowering perfume clouds the air and dulls their senses. A similar perfume is given to promising students as a graduation gift; an alchemical concoction made to daze and distract those nearby, and mask the scent of any noxious poison one might carry."
Professor Koro,Working in groups," The professor is not human, but some kind of aberrant squid from the far realms with immense power; he can move with blinding speed, is entirely immune to normal damage, and can channel his power into enormous explosions capable of destroying mountains. Koro is recognizably a threat to the entire world, but he teaches his class how to work together during assassinations to be able to accomplish feats they never could on their own, with the end goal being his own assassination at their hands. No class has ever been successful, but each gets slightly closer, and graduates with far more skill than most assassins who do not take the course."
never,Cleaning," When teaching, there is always a scenario prepared, frequently from other instructors homework. He will point at important details such as spills or small 'evidence' (hair, dust, footprints, etc.), make demonstrations with various potions and magic items, and then leave the students to figure out what he means, only giving approving nods or disapproving stares. He will use useful magic for ease, but will never use verbal spells. Students tend to learn how to use corrosive potions, blood sponges, incinerators, spells (if capable), disintegration effects, flooding techniques, using bags of holding for corpses, and, if present in the world, basic knowledge of a sphere of annihilation in order to permanently destroy all that enters its shadowy domain."
Drek,Theatricality," A lean muscled half-orc with a penchant for the dramatic. Named himself Drek, which translates into ""worthless"" in orcish, out of a constant melodramatic hate for his bloodline. ""Smoke and mirrors are just as valuable as a blade"" Teaches his students how to pull off a job in the most over the top way possible. Those who graduate from his course can make a kill look like an act of the gods, a devil's command, and anything in between. This course tends to attract mopey lone-wolf types."
"Dingo ""Silentfart"" Nackle",Assasination in public," Dingo is a smart and light hearted Gnome with bright, well trimmed hair, and sparkling green eyes. Excels at killing targets unnoticed, and finds great entertainment in taking out political targets among nobles. He's good with poison, and enjoys to use fairly unnoticeable tricks to kill his targets. Probably one of the most energetic lecturers, but tends to get really off topic, and regularly pranks his students."
Oleg Bluntaxe,Hitting people hard with an axe until they die," Sometimes all you need is to kill someone without any form of grace to make an example, and Oleg is the man for just that. He's a bald, dimwitted ex-lumberjack, with scruffy beard and has a great passion for chopping more than just trees. Lectures usually revolve around hitting stuff. Hard."
Toren Brightglow,Dinner Etiquette," Toren is a light haired, big bellied, constantly smiling dwarf. He teaches the proper methods of preparing a dinner for high class targets. The class focuses on such things as creating a menu, proper cooking techniques, silverware placement, and how to conduct light conversation. He makes each student throw a dinner party for the class each week, though its usually better to go hungry if you can't figure out if the nightshade is in the sea bass or the soup."
Solana Ashaar,Long Distance Targeting (Sniping)," A cheerful half-elf with fiery red hair, unkempt and cut short. She is usually pleasant to be around, and she helps those who ask for it, but when she is serious about a topic she is intimidating. Students will need to have saintly patience and be prepared for plenty of... unorthodox training methods, as sniping isn't exactly a straightforward technique to teach."
Sam,Deception and Illusion," While it is true that being a doppleganger Sam has an unfair advantage that they cannot teach to their students. Sam only takes in students with the drive to use spells such as ""disguise self"" and ""polymorph."" Sam teaches that nearly anything can be hidden in plain sight, from the people next to you to the weapons on your person. Sam has a tendency to walk into the first day of class as a student in naught but their uniform, and then walks to the front of the class and pulls out all manor of weapons from misc. polymorphed items. They also teach a class on conjuration for the higher level students."
Velyr,"""You never climb a castle wall without knowing what you'll find on the other side. Many of your contracts will prevent you from simply murdering your target, my love. I assure you that, with the letters you write, you can kill without a weapon, from any distance."""," Velyr is, by all appearances, human. He seems to have short hair, trimmed beard, and very well fitted dress. His manners are fluid, automatic, and above all precise. By all appearances, he would pass by unnoticed in any crowd of well-to-do citizens. By all appearances, he has a warm, soothing voice which makes those unwary feel safe near him. The close observer, however, may find his cold stare and toothy grin unnatural."
"MINIMUM!!""","""Which reminds me of how i lost my leg. You see..."""," He is, however, an altogether wonderful guy once you get to know him. His classes, while challenging, are always reasonable and he takes a lighthearded approach to economic math. When he digresses though, his stories get a bit... intense. It's the mood swings, probably- or perhaps the whisky. Or maybe it's due to sudden, crashing memories of his past. It's tough to say."
Varus Senepes,"""Vivian you do realize that you have FAILED... to sterilize your knife, upon puncturing your finger? Supposing you did the mix CORRECTLY... you will be dead in thirty seconds, unless you prepare your antidote with... legendary, speed. ...Miss Vivian I do believe you have just committed not ONLY to the failure of this course but your own demise as well. Drink this... now leave, before I decide to make YOU my next... ingredient."""," Alchemy, poisons and oils. Varus is a black haired, pale, centuries old elf, who talks with quite... pronounced... articulation. His robes hide his features so well he appears as a specter most days, if he appears at all. It amuses him to teach while invisible, to better catch slacking or cheating students. Incidentally, it also aids with visual demonstrations some days. His class is the most difficult to pass in the entire academy, due to the rigorous study and absolutely vicious classes. Being called upon to recite ingredients or cooking methods is quite dreaded, as failure could mean imbibing any number of potions to demonstrate the antidote application method. It would be quite an odd semester if every student survived, though Varus has never deliberately killed any of them. Yet, anyway."
"Loraine ""Doc"" Highfellow",Practical Anatomy," A former medical practitioner during the days of the Great plague, Loraine is cold, calculating, and unforgiving. She is a slender human woman, rather unremarkable looking, with brown eyes and shoulder-length black hair. The first day of her class is infamous among students, as she brings in two live humanoid subjects, and orders a student to attempt to kill one by stabbing them once. Often, it results in several minutes of agonized screaming from the victim, during which Loraine proceeds to demonstrate the importance of a thoughtfully-placed knife, ending the other subject's life quickly and quietly in naught but a few seconds. Her final exam can be heard throughout the school as, for a brief moment, dozens of people cry out in pain and fear before their lives are swiftly and efficiently snuffed by the students."
Darrio,Culinary Animosity," Darrio is a human male of average build with slightly graying hair. He is most often see dressed white, the way you would expect any good chef or cook to be. The first few weeks of his class always start with regular cooking lessons, to make sure the students can actually pass as, at the least, competent cooks. From there, he moves on to teaching them how to mix various ingredients into the food, to produce non-fatal effects such as diarrhea or vomiting without any noticeable unusual taste. The final portion of the course is fatal poisoning, by method. Successful students can induce death that looks like choking, heart attack, or almost any natural means. The absolute top students are those that can tailor mass consumption meals to specific individuals: A soup that targets only the duchess, bread rolls that only asphyxiate the diplomat from the foreign country, wine that only burns the esophagus of the famously vain opera singer, etc."
Mordak Chainboot,Prison Infiltration and Breakout," Mordak is a worn, sickly-looking dwarf with a smoky-gray beard barely longer than a stubble. In his lectures, he has a tendency to wax on about his own claim to fame: infiltrating a supposedly inescepable dwarven prison and breaking out after assassinating his mark. Despite the occasional reminiscing, his lessons do cover all the aspects of assassinating an imprisoned mark, from techniques to learn the prison layout in preparation, to various ways of securing an unguarded moment with the mark to carry out the assassination."
Jiang of the Silent Afterlife,Professor of Making Sure Dead Men Tell No Tales," In a world where ghosts exist, it can be hard for assassins to maintain their anonymity when their victim's spirit can still point fingers. Jiang has mastered the arcane arts of keeping ghosts silent, often by destroying the ghost as soon as the spirit leaves the body or by destroying the spirit before the body dies. She honed her ghost-slaying talents under the tutelage of a temple to Pelor, and has learned arcane rites to hurry a soul into its proper afterlife, where it can't tell stories, in a temple to the Raven Queen. Her classes tend to be underfilled, as few respect the value of her lessons until a paranormal investigation begins, and the spirit is at large."
Rylni of Grayshear,"Vice Provost for Faculty Affairs, teaches Scrying Ia"," This beady eyed gnome wears a light gray robe that contour her body just enough to reveal a gaunt figure unfit for strenuous work, unlike others at the academy. She has an oily and freckled face which both accentuate a scar that runs from her jaw line to her right cheek bone. Often mistaken for a student, Rylni distinguishes herself through her unforgettably explosive temper when she's outspoken. Rylni has the difficult task of performing fact checks on instructors who applied to the academy. Students taking her class learn elementary applications of the scrying orb, amongst other divination tricks."
Therian the Flame,Making it look like an accident," Seen as a joke by the other teachers LoneStar is, nonetheless, One of the most well known assassins ever. LoneStar's reputation exceeds his actual success rate by many levels, however. LoneStar teaches that one must take pride in their work, and everyone should know who killed the mark. Studebts practice boisterous monologues while hanging from rafters, taunting their target while it summons its guards, and develop their own flamboyant ""signature technique"" with its own equally edgy name.   Therian is a middle aged man, brown hair and bronze skin. He only wears a pair of white baggy clith pants, and his scimitar strapped to his waist. Therians class teaches students how to best utilize poor building techniques, such as weak foundations, or wood structural beams, to literally ""bring the house down"" on their target. Graduates of this class go on to become Expert serial arsonists and impromptu demolitions crews, as well as being highly sought after sappers in times of war."
Lokeris Dark (the third),Justification," A silver-tongued Tiefling fellow, always dressed impecably in the finest clothes, elven in style of course. His manners, always impecable, are totally disarming, charming even the most savage of beasts. His wit sharper than the finest blades the forgotten realms could offer. And there's the rub. You see, learning to kill subtly is one thing, learning to give a reason to kill is another. Under Lokeris' tutelage, students will learn how find their target's weak spot, whether it be cards, dice, or just their honour, and exploit it, needle at it until the target attacks. Remember, it isn't murder if it's self defense."
Matron Sarah,Common folk manipulation and political subterfuge," Matron Sarah is an elderly human, previously married to a farmer before he and her children were murdered by soldiers of his lord. She has a kind smile and kinder eyes, and teaches the better off students how to fraternize with peasants and urchins. This is a unique brand of assassination she teaches; turning once loyal subjects against their leaders, typically through violent revolution. Despite this facade, she cares little for the well being of the people, only taking pleasure in the upsetting of power balances and political instability that follows. The loss of her family broke her, and she sought vengeance by making a pact with a particularly capricious fey in exchange for the power to rein chaos on the material plane."
Daven of Crowbridge,does," Jethro Eckhardt is a lean, bespectacled, scholarly looking sort, often dressed in doctor's robes and accompanied by his distinctly humanoid Clay Golem, D4. Together they teach the principles of where to hit a target where it hurts most, and just how to do it, with Jethro covering the theoretical side of things and D4 acting as a living training dummy of sorts for practical demonstrations. A cheerful man who enjoys his work, Jethro has developed quite the bond with his classroom assistant, and has taken to referring to D4 as 'David', after the phonetic spelling of his College asset ID. It's this knowledge of preventative maintenance he tries to pass on through his course- ""Take care of your tools, young lot- and they'll take lives in return!"""
Bob,Erasing," Bob is quiet and unassuming. You might have seen him, but your eyes probably just passed over him. He's about average height, and his hair is shortish, or maybe longer? But anyway, Bob gets rid of people. Very important people. Assassinating someone important is hard. Not the part with the dagger and the muffled scream and the look in their eyes as they come to grips with the fact that this is their last moment on the material plane. That part is easy. It's the part after, where the clerics come in and make a big show of speaking with his corpse, and the divination wizards come, all eager to curry favor with whatever poor bastard now has to sit his arse on the throne. Now there are people looking for you, and you're living out your life in a lead-lined room in some backwater safehouse. Bob doesn't teach you to assassinate people, like the others. He teaches you how to erase someone. Come dawn, no one will even wonder who used to eat the bacon and eggs the cooks are busy making or whether someone sleeps in that big bed. They'll just be gone, and you won't even have to hide, because no one is looking for you."
"Victor ""Jigsaw"" Moreau",Remote detonation," A human in his late 50's, hunched, twitching and covered in scars thanks to a few too many close encounters with his own creations. Victor has a soft Germanic accent and a simple rule when it comes to assassination: it doesn't matter how loud you are if you're not in the room when it happens. 'Listen vell, ladies and gentellmen. Ven ze general, king, queen or target of choice sits on zis cushion, ze pressure of ze bum on ze chair breaks ze sugarglass in between ze two vials, allowing ze reagents to mix. Vonce zat happens, ze fireball should consume everyzing in a twenty-foot radius, so I vould advise making a note of ze seating plan."""
"William ""The Raven"" Finley",Interrogation Resistance," A calm old wood elf with dark brown hair, dull green skin, and hazel eyes, Silaneth sometimes spends an entire class with her nose in a book and her back turned to the students. The next day, they all receive marks. No one is quite sure for what. Some students leave in the middle of class and get a perfect score, others a failing grade for the same stunt. The joke around the academy is that it's a course in patience, not in stealth. Indeed, Sila often admonishes her students for excess haste. ""If you don't know more about your mark's routine than their own family when you go in for the kill, you are making a dangerous mistake. You can learn how to clean up the murder scene from Remmings, but if the mark's head of security walks in on you because you don't know his schedule, you've got a bigger problem on your hands."" Although she does teach various techniques in stealth and long distance tracking, the most useful part of her class is the weekly assignment to each student: to follow another professor in the academy, learn as much about their life as they can, and to not get caught. By the end of the course, the best students are more than capable of avoiding detection while tailing even an experienced mark. On the first day of the class, William scans the room with his deep, black eyes. Later, every student swears that his piercing gaze lingered on them just a little longer than everyone else. Everyone admits that when William looks at you, it feels like he can see directly into your soul. He was a human soldier in a special operations unit reporting directly to the highest officers in the military. A natural born leader, he did not have any profound or unique skills save that of his magnetic charisma and unyielding will. His class is well known to be grueling and unforgiving. There are no marks, only a pass or fail. Those who have passed the class, are known around the academy and either widely respected or else feared. He begins his first lecture with this, ""Most of you will fail. If you have a shred of doubt in your ability to pass this class, quit now. Nine percent. That's how many of you I can expect to pass this course. Just looking around the room I can already tell which ones of you will quit within the first week."" He starts pointing at the students and calling them out by name. He makes an effort to learn the names of every person in his course before they start so he can verbally abuse them from the first day. Very quickly, the students realize that during his class, he can be abusive and cruel, but is kind and friendly when not in class. He was a POW of the Drow for over a decade and sometimes recounts the sickening torture they utilized to try to get him to talk. He likes to lead groups on hikes, go camping, and tell war stories around the fire when he is not teaching. During one week of classes, towards the end of the course, students must go through hell week. This is a week of no sleep, no food, no rest. They are tortured, they are poisoned, they are bewitched. Every possible things is done to get them to give up. All they have to do is say they're done and all the pain stops. They are given a warm delicious meal in front of their peers who are still struggling. Those who don't give up, have almost passed the course. They have one final exam: to not give up a piece of information to the students of Dareth ""Feelgood"" Woren through a day of torture. Selected Quotes: ""Your mind is your most powerful weapon and your biggest weakness. When I lived with the Monks in the mountains of Harkonell, I learned to strengthen my mind. Your assignment, from this day to the end of this course, is to meditate while in pain. Try for an hour a day. I have a list of sufficient ways to cause pain posted on my office door."" ""Always remember, if you're being tortured for information, that is the only thing keeping you alive. Revealing it will result in certain death. We strengthen the mind and the will because when they are weak, death will seem like a welcome reprieve."" ""The most powerful torture is psychological. They will tell you they're torturing your family. They will show you what may or may not be illusions of your family being tortured. They will force you to ingest poisons that cause you to forget who you are. Sometimes they will offer you something enticing instead. They might offer you riches, immunity, protection, freedom. These are all techniques to get you to break. Do not fall for them."""
Vulpis Dreamwine,Truth And Truth-Seeking," A sallow elf with sunken, always-wide eyes that hint at an untenable sleeplessness. Vulpis has a drunken gait, relaxed charm, and a penchant for purple in his shoddy patchwork outfit. ""Get comfortable. Sometimes what you seek is just a friendly conversation away."" When he's not telling stories about epic triumphs and adventures-gone-wrong, he casually chats with his students about their past, their aspirations, which classes they're taking with which professors. A Nat 20 Insight roll on one of his stories will reveal that some part of it is dishonest. On the last day of class, each student awakens to find something precious has been stolen from them. The classroom is abandoned and locked. If investigated, the school has no records of a Vulpis on staff or a ""Truth And Truth-Seeking"" class."
Alstair Horngrave,"Above and Below, or How to Use Infrastructure"," Alstair is not usually known for his manners or his appearance, however he is known for his entrances. At the beginning of each term and before any practical examinations, he makes a point of entering the room from somewhere other than the door, once even rising from the ashes in the nearby fireplace. His course mainly revolves around using sewers, rooftops, and crowded streets to disappear or approach your target unseen, taught through theory and anecdotes from his days as an urchin. On rare occasions, he'll have some of his colleagues play the role of a student as a test, blending in with their classmates for weeks at a time until that first test is deemed to be concluded. The more notable of his lessons are held outside the classroom, teaching students through real life experience in controlled environments."
"John Graves, Insurance Adjuster",Chaos Based Magical Assassination," John Graves, Insurance Adjuster, is a pillar of the community, often found helping the local priests, donating food to the poor, and helping people recover from horrific accidents that he often causes. The name, John Graves, Insurance Adjuster, is a legacy title, passed down to the highest ranked assassin in the guild (often with several ""John Graves"" active at a single time period, working independently). Each Graves acts slightly differently; however, they each have two things in common. They run a ""respectable"" business, often insurance, but another similar profession works too, such as pharmacist or banker, and Graves has made a deal with some sort of Chaos God or Great Old One, which he sells the souls of those whom sign his contracts to the chaotic one, whom eventually kills them in a chaotic accident and feeds upon the chaos surrounding their untimely death. (Chaos loves collateral damage, but the only person whom ever dies as a result of these accidents is the victim, no matter how much destruction of property or others whom are injured in the process.) Grave's weapon of choice for his assassinations is based upon a misleading contract which binds the souls of those he insures to be eventually killed in horrific accidents. Graves is able to prevent an insurance contract from causing an accidental death by burning the contract prior to the death of the signor, or instantly ""activate"" the contract (and cause the accidental death to occur before the next New Moon), by signing and executing the contract in his own blood. He trains new assassins by teaching them actuarial tables, and in all ways making them a perfect ""drone"" within his business. All initiates also sign a contract upon joining the Guild. Once an initiate has proven a perfect ""Insurance Adjuster"" or ""Bank Teller"" or otherwise, they are inducted into the secret society and given the option to become a new John Graves. If the initiate declines, the Chaos God eats the initiates soul. It is unclear how Graves monetizes his assassinations, and each Graves has independent motivations sometimes at odds with other Graves. One common tactic is to gain as many insurance contracts with high ranking members of society as he can infiltrate, and then ""selling"" the death to his target's enemies prior to their death."
"Haber ""Gasman"" Devronich","Poisons, potions and chemistry"," Lastman, as he is most commonly referred to, is a generally unremarkable human, and comes to each class with a fresh costume, set of mannerisms and name. He never tells new students this, and one of the earliest 'grades' given is how long it takes to figure out that all the teachers they've had are the same person. A tall, bulky half-orc, Shaav wears armor almost constantly, and will challenge individual students to duels if they slight him. He is surprisingly eloquent, and knows almost every book of sword theory front and back. He has never actually worked as an assassin, but quickly teaches his students that no fight will ever be between them and a similarly-sized individual. A tall, imposing elf, Devronich is covered in centuries of burns, scars and boils, and always wears an asbestos hazard suit for protection while in class, and more than once he has accidentally incapacitated his entire class. He constantly coughs and giggles to himself, and those who are in his classes rarely stay for more than a semester, and few have survived more than two."
Kethan Quentith,Applied Anatomy," A scholarly Drow man with round glasses and tousled white hair, generally absent minded and gregarious but keenly focused when it comes to surgeries, dissections, and other less reputable applications of his craft (torture foremost amongst them). He left the Underdark not because of some innate goodness but because he wanted to work on greater varieties of species than could be found below the surface. Students under him learn how the bodies of most common races are put together and, consequently, how to take them apart in excruciating or efficient ways"
The silent council,stealth and distraction," A tribe of feral kenku who use their mimicry and movements to teach their pupils the art of moving silently, knowing when to speak and not, causing distractions, and finding the opportune time to strike. They are highly intelligent but seem to care not for material things beyond their robes and daggers, though they do accept offerings of food in exchange for a chance to be taught a lesson in their art. The selection methods of the council are unknown. Some say they have the ability to shape change into monstrous forms of feather and shadow - known silent council students will not speak of this."
"Supremely Eminent Hobgoblin Cancer-Kill Educator VI, Whose Wisdom Mustn't Be Questioned",Hobgob Campus V: The Very Best Campus on the Planet or in the Sky if the Sky Had Campuses," This otherwise unblemished, jovial hobgoblin is stooped under the weight of an eyewateringly disgusting hump on his back that pulses in the middle of class. If he catches you staring he pulls his robe a little to show you more. He's very proud of his hump. He extracts all his best diseases from it. SEHC-KE4WWMBQ teaches the uniquely hobgoblinoid assassination tool of natural causes. Hobgoblins mercilessly execute any who use the sacred arts of battle to kill dishonorably. And since the only acceptable ways for a hobgoblin to die are in battle or of disease, hobgob assassins need to get creative. And they don't use poison. This isn't poison and if you suggest it is to SEHC-KE4WWMBQ he will have you thrown out of his class immediately. This is natural causes. In SEHC-KE4WWMBQ's putrid study hall you will learn about Slough Rot, the Masonry-disease of the Gibbering Mouther, and how to spread it from floor to man. You will be taught how to culture the Love-cancer, which metastasizes in your nose and spreads by kiss. You will learn the 50 ways to kill a man by leaving a moldy piece of toast under his sink. You will, Hobgob willing, grow your own garden of throwing viruses, whose protein capsids grow so long and sharp that they can be used as daggers. Due to a quirk in the hobgoblin code that last one still technically counts as kosher."
Val Raveneyes,Political and disguises," A freshly groomed bearded human man. Wearing noble's clothing. Mastermind Rogue and Warlock levels a Raven sits on his shoulder when he rests. He is extremely blunt and prides himself on efficiency. Silver tongued through years of being a fence in a thieves guild, he has surpassed his teachers. Able to craft any disguise in hours, he has even disguised others to appear as him while he sat in on his own class to show how effective it is. ""Remember that saying? Keep your friends close and your enemies closer?"" ""Disguise yourself and your enemies think you friend, making it all the easier. Poison and a sharp blade can do the rest."" ""Blue blood is as good as red blood. Ribs 5 and 6, dagger goes between those for best results."""
Phalin Ghandos,Information with Style," This happy-go-lucky half-elf plays everywhere, palaces, inns, taverns, and even town squares. While he's laughing with nobles, he's bedding the help. All the while gathering information for weak spots either in security or in court. Trained at the College of Swords, Phalin is as deadly with a blade as is his wit. Oh and to pass his class you've got to gain information he doesn't already have."
Sergeant Cutler,Military Etiquette," A grizzled human male, Cutler looks out of place in his worn mail shirt among the black-clad faculty. A veteran of many foreign militaries, militias, mercenaries, posses, gangs, city watches and similarly regimented organizations, Cutler's lessons can let any soft-handed assassin-to-be swagger into a barracks without a second glance from its occupants. A few brave souls refer to him behind his back as ""The Seamstress"" for his talent at repairing and imitating any uniform, a lesson he teaches under the moniker of ""Advanced Military Infiltration."""
Vrok Grathul,Assassination for Haruspicy," Vrok is an elderly orc with bone piercings across his face and arms. He speaks slowly and uses few words, but is not unintelligent. He teaches a method of knifework that assassinates the target but preserves the entrails in the best possible state for divination. He is disliked but acknowledged by other teachers due to his skill and long experience."
Elden Vathir,Post-Capture Diplomacy," Elden is a broad-faced half-elf with a silver tongue. He is curiously still while talking; always active when not. He deals with what can be done in the event an assassin is captured - bribery, tricking guards, and other diplomatic subjects."
Alexandros Cordini,Enhanced calisthenics," ""Nobody can get the job done if the body cannot follow the mind."" This bald middle aged man doesn't like to brag about his kill score, or talk about it at all, but what he does brag about is his stamina and how good legs will bring your ass to places. He's a firm believer that 20 push-ups for each mistake and misstep will bring your mind where it needs to be, and that proper full body workout can forge the most lethal weapon in any assassin's arsenal: one's own body."
Dargos Blackthumb,Abduction & Extraction,"  This strangely quiet dwarf js good at not being seen and better at not letting a good kill go to waste. He teaches a type of 'business' where the actual assassination is only a mere step to a final goal, or sometimes isn't even performed until after the job is already done. Sometimes less than savory folk has less than savory needs for bodies. Breathing or otherwise. A gang may need a corpse to serve as a body double, a rich vampire may want a meal and doesn't feel like hunting it themselves, or a demonic cult may need specific body parts for their dark rituals. Whether the client will pay on delivery of a corpse, a living captive, or a just pint of blood, it doesnt make much difference. The victim dies sooner or later, and you'll learn to be paid either way."
Hattori Masanari,Manipulation and deceit," The idle chatter filling the room quickly turns into quiet whispers as the door opens, and a skinny man enters. He continued towards the desk, his fine clothes formed a snug fit over his slender body, barely wrinkling at all as he moved. The most striking thing however were his unusually sharp features, aquiline nose, combed back hair, and seeming use of dark makeup to enhance the already prominent amber eyes, leaving him looking about as hawk-like as human can be, and a less wise man might even mistake him for a hengeyokai of that variety. There had been less wise men, but nobody believed them, after all they had all shown to be fools, scoundrels or both. The first one ended up on the streets after utterly ruining his merchant family's legacy. The second was nothing but a lowly thief and hung for his crimes. The third, he died to his brothers rapier, a befitting end for seducing the poor brothers wife. He had taken no pleasure in their deaths, why would he? He wasn't a monster, no; but seeing the hope in their eyes fade and be replaced with panic as their whole world collapsed around them, that, that was what made him feel alive, so there he stood in front of the class ready to pass on his skills to a new generation, his mouth forming a small smile as he spoke in the voice of someone knowing they own the world, ""Class is now in session""."
Lady Vivica Haverly,Weddings and Wagers," A thin, brunette woman of middling years. Impeccably dressed to the highest of society’s standards, just conservative enough but with a coquettish smile that’s lured in more than a few marks. Whilst she is all charm and graces when on a job, as a teacher she is exacting and methodical. She teaches her students how to goad their marks into their own downfalls, with weddings and wagers being her forte. Where time and planning is available, she can take a mark and have them under her thumb within a short few months; Marriage proposal to the aisle in under 6. Before the year is out she is a tragic widow with a dazed look in her eyes and many people falling over themselves to console her until she disappears to ‘recover’. Where she is short on time she has been known to use pride and folly to her advantage, convincing the unsuspecting into ill-advised bets that lead to their demise. Whether it’s to protect her honour, to impress her, or simply her gentle coaxing into a bad decision already waiting to happen, Lady Haverly has seen many a mark fall to their death on the duelling crowd, attempting impossible feats or simply falling into debt so heavy that taking their own lives seems the sensible option. Lady Vivica lives by the principle of why get your hands dirty if they’ll do it themselves for you?"
are,Planning and information gathering," Tall and laid back, the human seems to have a natural charm to him. Able to make anyone smile, however his eyes pierce through you, which leads way to a different, aggressive personality. Elias teaches the importance of detail. Explaining how every detail must be fully observed, and fully absorbed, the smallest piece of the puzzle can save your hide. ""Don't write anything down, commit it to memory, because sometimes you wont have time. Plus, you can lose your writing, which leads me to my next point. Prepare for every plan you make, to fail. This is why you need to learn to improvise."" He seems to observe everything for a few seconds longer than most, and has a mostly clear memory of everything within the past 3 days. ""The key to a clean kill is a solid understanding of the cage the animal has restricted itself to."""
Forlom Zuckus,Magical Recon," A tall, shapely human, Ms. Underbust is an expert in the arts of disguise, seduction, and blackmail. Her students learn to gain a mark's trust, then discover (or create) incriminating evidence. Her classes cover social customs and taboos, the practice of changing your appearance to suit your needs, and how to use information (whether it be true or not) as leverage. A successful student of her's will be able to turn an otherwise upstanding citizen into their own unwilling lackey or a social pariah fit only to be run out of town. She also insists on all of her students drinking heavily during her classes to build up their tolerance, ""You should always be prepared to drink your mark under the table.""   Lockjaw is a no-nonsense goblin with a knack for remembering every face she sees. An accomplished networker and fence, she is as dangerous at a negotiating table as she is with a blade. Most any person is to have some personal items on them, usually in the form of jewelry, magical items, or heirlooms. While in some cases it is important to leave these identifying items on a corpse, you are more likely to live to see your next contract if the authorities have to ask who is dead before they can as why they are dead. You could destroy these items, but that would be a shameful waste. Better to sell them to someone who understands the importance of discretion. Prof. O'Mally is a fence first and an assassin second. Her class is devoted to safely and secretly selling the goods of the recently deceased. She also teaches courses in negotiating contracts and sizing up potential employers to determine who is and is not safe to work with.   A tall, pale human who has clearly spent too much time in dark places, Forlom clearly emphasizes magical acumen first, meditation second, and hygiene last. Prof. Zuckus is a master of divination. His classes focus on learning everything you need to know about a target before you get within a days journey of them. He will set up traps days in advance, knowing exactly where and when his mark will be vulnerable. Graduates of his plan their strike days in advance, set their traps, and leave with enough time to be miles away before the hit takes place. There is no need to witness the kill in person when you can witness it magically."
"Lak ""lucky"" Lu","The butterfly's wings. A form of assassination that exploits chaos theory. Like using an ice cube to trip a pedestrian into a horse sending it on a stampede that causes your hemophiliac target to break their wine glass in shock, cutting themselves and having a slow and painful death.", Lucky Lu is a fat halfing that claims to be responsible for 70 high profile accidental deaths. He claims his skill is due to his 7 toes on each foot. It wasn't until he wasn't threatened by a thug with a knife and the thug was killed by choking on a pea that anyone believed him. He claims he is waiting for someone adequately accident prone to pass his methods down to.
Ephut-Kai,Headmaster," Ephut-Kai is a bald man with bronze skin and scars running the length of his arms. Ephut-Kai is a silent, intense man who never says more than he has to. Most students are thankful of his silence, because Ephut-Kai has never said anything that wasn't at least mildly threatening or unsettling. Ephut-Kai runs the Academy, a mountain monastery which trains monks in the art of murder. The students are sold at incredibly high prices, and they never fail. Ephut-Kai was once a student, until the former headmaster murdered his twin-brother for insubordination. Then Ephut-Kai drown the former headmaster in a pool of lava. Since then, the Academy has been running smoothly and silently, just like Ephut-Kai likes."
John Tark,The Everyday Man," ""If you want to know everything about anything, you need to start from the bottom. Students of my class will learn to infiltrate the deepest dungeon, scale the tallest towers, and be invited into the most prestigious of throne rooms and balls."" ""The unkempt cleaner, the grumbling plumber, the amiable server. These are the roles you will wear in my class."""
Wymern Ravel,Public Assassination," ""No, no. Not like that!"" he yelled as a student detonated another Fireball. His scaly hands waved wildly, as chaotic as the commotion he caused when he performed one of his spectacles. ""You must make it bigger, brighter! A show so spectacular you can just fade into the crowd!"" ""Easy for you to say! You're a--"" complained a student. A fireball immediately blew up in his face, yet leaving him unharmed. Despite being only a human, Wymern had all the temper of a red dragon."
Tilo Otto,Character Assassination and Emotional Manipulation," A silent and solemn tiefling, this pale pink-skinned assassin is neither wiry nor bulky in build. Mr. Otto, as he prefers to be addressed by his peers, wears a simple frock coat that matches his night black horns pulled close to his slicked back hair. His movements are slow and deliberate, much like his clearly enunciated manner of speaking. Mr. Otto chooses his students based not only on their criminal merit, but also their calculating and entrepreneurial goals. Students are expected to strip away their own emotions, because Mr. Otto's particular brand of character assassination requires lack of pity or empathy. Many of Tilo Otto's targets are driven to suicide after a long and drawn out loss of sanity. Through use of illusory manipulation, Mr. Otto teaches students to implant nightmares and hallucinations in the target. In addition to the practical application of illusory magic, Mr. Otto teaches his students the art of surveillance and creating a profile of their targets in an effort to better torment them."
Brande 'The Voice' Preznal,Baiting and Distraction," Brande is a human built like a string but strung in a bow. What he lacks in physical ability he's made up for in taking hits and drawing crowds. ""Sometimes a job requires a distraction. Maybe the guards need a fight to break out and draw a guard. Maybe you're not suited for offing some bloat but you're still here to help. Or maybe you drew the short straw. One day or another you won't be the man drawing the targets blood. I'll be teaching you the ways of getting the attention of the right people to leave the opening for your mate to take the kill. First things first, someone show me your punch."""
Kor Chizael,"Philosophy and Ethics, and once a cleric of Bhaal"," A gaunt human with sunken eyes and wrinkled, waxy skin, Kor is a follower of Bhaal, a cult leader and professor of ethics. He appears to have burn scars on the right side of his face, or possibly some sort of disease of deterioration, possibly magical in origin. He constantly wears a deep scowl, and his emotions range from anger to apathy and nothing in-between. ""Life is a spider web that we are trapped in, slowly starving, awaiting the spider's fangs and final embrace and sweet release. To spill the artery of another is an act of mercy - and it is our duty."""
Langston Mandelig,adjusts his hair and starts to pace," A tall, lanky half elf in a rough coveralls. He is pale with unkept dark hair, wire rimmed spectacles and a distracted manner. He speaks quickly with a slightly high pitched voice and a tendency to go off on rambling esoteric tangents. Vain and sesquipedalian, he has little time and less interest in those who are beneath him intellectually. Quick to anger and defensive when challenged, he nonetheless is a skilled instructor for competent students. He specializes in obscure and undetectable poisons and deadly agents. Example lecture: ""Hello class"" ""Today we are going to be discussing the use of hormonally triggered toxins. Those of you who bothered to attend our last lab section... ""Will recall the value of decoupling cause and effect in a discrete assassination. A quality investigator will firstly attempt to link the motive, opportunity and action to the effect. The effect of course is the inhumation of the relevant target. By decoupling the apparent cause and effect we can disguise our connection, hence the value of asymptomatic pathological agents that are triggered by means at a far remove from our own actions. ""The classice example is what is crudely known as the ""Lecher's trap"" which you will find an in depth discussion of in Chapter 6 of Mironnel Krenski's text ""Obscure toxicological agents and Other Discrete Political Agents"" available at the university library. This is a sample of purpose bred sporulated Entamoeba histolytica. It is an anaerobic parasitic that may infect any known humanoid. This particular strain has been bred to enter the vascular tissue of any higher vertebrate. After amebiatic introduction, it takes 1-2 days to colonize and passively wait for the proper hormonal trigger. It may persist in its vegetative metabolic condition for at least 2 years. ""This is the extract of Hyoscyamus of the genus Solanaceae. When administered to a person results in a increased production of glucocorticoids over for approximately a week. ""Weren't you listening?!?! This vial is harmless!!! Our whole purpose is carrying two discrete agents that can trigger a deadly effect!!!!!"" ""The increased production of glucocorticoids can be noted in the affected creatures saliva and other mucosal secretions!!!! This glucocorticoid will trigger the amoebic agent and result in the rapid death secondary to uncontrolled bleeding over the course of 2-3 days approximately 1 week after the combination of these agents! Meaning we can infect a target and later place the trigger in a person who will shortly have intimate contact with our target allowing us sufficient time to absent ourselves and introduce reasonable doubt into the actual moment of poisoning!"""
Velkan Artaner,Camoflauge," Velkan is a dark elf who has an eye for detail. He is very clean and presentable during lectures, and seemingly despises unnecessary dirt and grime. Some who only have a passing knowledge of him may even classify him as a ""neat freak."" Despite being a dark elf, Velkan appears to be one of the most civilized, well-spoken, and hygienic people one could know. However, during practical training exercises, Velkan adopts an entirely new personality. He becomes manic and highly elusive, covering himself in dirt, mud, foliage, and any miscellaneous objects to assist him in blending in to his surroundings. His dark skin serves as a natural aid when stalking in the shadows and, in combination with his silent movements, becomes almost impossible to locate when he wishes to remain hidden. Students and faculty report Velkan sometimes ""appearing out of thin air, as if coming out of an invisibility spell."" He will frequently stalk students and staff alike when he's in one of his moods. There are rumors that he startled the head apothecary by perfectly disguising as the intricate wallpaper that covered the head apothecary's study. After announcing his presence and starting a conversation with the apothecary, Velkan reportedly disappeared back into the wallpaper mid-sentence as soon as the Head Apothecary turned his back to him."
Alana Lowe,Non-magic Subterfuge and Manipulation," The instructor known for having one of the most difficult classes to pass, Alana takes the phrase ""Know thy enemy"" and has turned it into ""Mold thy enemy."" Alana is a human woman who, while she naturally looks humble and homely, is known for being beautifully seductive if it is what the job requires. Her class focuses on pulling the strings from behind the scenes. The best jobs are ones you can finish without ever having to divulge a name. Subtle suggestion, if implemented properly, is enough to control the mind of anyone without magic and, most importantly, without them knowing. You don't have to kill anyone if you can convince someone else to do it for you, and make them think it was their idea in the first place. Her classes are notoriously difficult because she employs her own lessons against her students. Frequently turning students against each other or starting feuds and fights between friends, Alana's students must recognize and resist her silent influence in order to succeed."
"Kerlead ""Big-Splash"" Ironleg",Assasinations involving Heavy Weapons and Explosives," At first sight, this stout dwarf, with wild brown eyes, a short, scruffy beard the color of rust, and clad in a too-large chainmail hauberk that drags and rattles across the floor behind him, appears to be anything but stealthy. That first impression would be correct. Kerlead is loud, bombastic, brazen, and can take out an entire guard barracks with a single spark. Kerlead's specialty lies in explosives and artillery, but is highly knowledgeable about most other heavy weapons. When stealth is not a feasible option, the constantly drunken dwarf's ideology is to ""level the playing field."" Literally. With high explosives. His nickname, ""Big-Splash"", actually has more than one meaning. While he is highly efficient with area-of-effect weaponry, he is also infamous with the other instructors for spilling full mugs of beer when he is drinking, and he drinks often without regard for who is around him as well as without fear of reprisal for showing up to lecture, intoxicated, with full mugs in each hand. During his class, students will learn mostly technical information about various explosives, artillery pieces, fuses, and trigger mechanisms. Information includes kill radius of explosives, simple ballistic maths, ammunition types and uses for artillery pieces, and speeds at which different fuses burn in different weather conditions. The culminating event of the class is to make and implement their own chain-explosive devices, which must consist of at least 5 individual bombs linked together and all detonated via a single slow-burning fuse."
Kelvius Argent,"High Level Improvisation: What do to when Plan B, C and D all go down in flames"," Middle Aged Male Halfling, scruffy, scarred, and weathered. Often stands on tables. His favorite way to measure his students resourcefulness is to sabotage their efforts towards other classes vital assignments and see how they compensate. Week 1 is about the tools that make any job easy, then he forbids those for the term across the board for his students. Often hated for driving students to tears, madness or embarrassment in their most difficult terms. After he feels he's thrown enough wrenches in any given classes work, his actions will eventually teach the intended lesson, but this can be as short or as long as the students make it. They just have to keep moving forward by any means. The only true failure is to give up."
Sander Thon,Convincing your Target to assassinate themselves.," Sander Thon is a gremlin of a person. At his full height he might stand a good 5'5"", but his characteristic slouch keeps him just under 5'. His skin is sallow and dotted with liver spots, and one eye drifts lazily about it's socket. The trick, he tells all of his students, is to convince your Target there is nothing left to live for. It starts, funnily enough, by making your Target very happy using a variety of tinctures and potions brewed specifically to lift the spirits. After a week or two of these raised spirits, life begins to take a turn for the worse for our Target. As you cut off their supply of joy, a beloved pet may die, a confidant may betray them, they may be mocked in the public eye, and they will find themselves isolated. A potion to dull the senses, but not the mind will make the quiet comforts of the Target's life do anything but. If done properly, a Target will take their own life within a matter of weeks, but if not, don't be afraid to give them a little push off a high building. As long as there is no evidence of foul play, most people will put the pieces together without a second thought."
Hearken Ambrose,Power Dichotomy," Hearken is a human male of considerable stamina and charisma; his jokes are as legendary as his exploits. He once ran with an assassin's guild responsible for dethroning a king. He teaches courses on the importance of power--both in combat and in life. His most ardent belief is that no two different powers are equal and teaches his pupils to fight against unfair odds--how to fight multiple opponents at once, how to assess weakness of character or of body, how to defeat a superior opponent, et cetera. He is a master of the improvised weapon and the most famous tale of his assassinations involves Heaken killing a man with an urn full of his own grandmother's ashes."
Sylux (the Swift),Masking and Unmasking," Sylux is short for an elf, though his legacy makes up for his stature. He is paranoid about being spied upon via magic and has worn various masks for most of his adult life. He teaches courses in types of masks from a thematic standpoint--physical masks are certainly one part, but, he applies the theory to shadows, illusions, his feint-heavy fighting style, even written correspondance. He teaches that everyone wears some type of mask; the trick is figuring out what lies beneath. Hearken for instance, Sylux posits, is actually a dog in a man's mask--""how else is one to explain the flaccid-armed technique Hearken uses? He looks like a dog bounding across a yard with a stick."""
Alrick Wiljin,Improvised weaponry," A gnome with a permanent grin on his pale face. Alrick is always busy and inseperable from his pet otter 'Lutrin'. He specializes and teaches the creation of weapons out of everyday objects and nature. He is best known for his branch-blowpipe and darts, which he can forge in under 10 minutes out of the branch of a black gum tree without tools. One of his more elaborate pieces is a crossbow made out of 8 pieces of silverware and a single cloth. Don't let the quirkiness of the weapons distract you, because most of them are lethal. ""Everything is a weapon if you want it to"" Taking his class can seem quite dangerous as he likes to test new-made weapons on homemade armour. Despite frequent accidents with experimental weapons neither Alrick nor his students suffered any deadly injuries in the 13 years he's teaching the course."
Quarn son of Nagus,Economics," This rock gnome is always dressed in the finest suits. His most disgusting features are his large ears. He has a meticulous set of 285 rules for any and all purchases or business deals. He views all interactions as transactions. Tends to caress the tops of his ears when happy. Class is taught in three parts. First, in a classroom, where he will lecture about how a good grasp of economy can be as useful as any poison. Then students are split into groups and made to run a tavern, each assigned a patron to learn about. Finally, the most promising students are sent on missions of an economic variety - which he gets a percentage of, of course. In his class you will learn how to acquire items needed for any mission. You will learn to bargain, trade, deal and swindle. Buy the loyalty of the targets' guards. Corner the market in their secret desires and force them to come to you. Once you have their trust, you ruin them. Take their house, income, servants and leave them with nothing. In the end, the target is no longer able to feed themselves reliably, let alone trouble whomever it was who hired you and you have established a profitable - and on paper - legal side business to supplement your income."
Vagabond Tarris,Suggestion and Persuasion," A jovial halfling, in every way a deliberate stereotype of the wandering minstrel, Tarris claims to have never drawn blood by her own hand. Instead, every kill to her name or that of her students has been the result of some reckless course of action, provoked or inspired by Tarris's words, with the aid of some of the more subtle charms and compulsions. ""Assassinations are inherently suspicious, but fools chasing fables into the desert wastes are inherently mockable."" Students of Tarris study ancient legends of lost gold, famous rivalries and their causes, various mind-altering drugs and poisons, and esoteric styles of magic that one could slip into a conversation without notice. She is notorious for her tendencies towards one-upsmanship, something she's aware of. She often claims she never graduates a student unless they can tell her a story she can't overtop."
Kardal Illuthamae,Mechanical Sabotage," A huge goliath, nearly eight feet tall and 400 lbs of muscle, Kardal passes just a bit too well as a humble mechanic. He speaks street slang with the accent of the poor and working class, but with a gentleness long ago bullied out of those who didn't tower over others the way he did as a child. Kardal's style is in the failure of mechanical components: wagon axles breaking down in the wilderness, ships breaking apart at sea, traps triggering when they shouldn't, etc. He is a very patient instructor, and he prefers the hands-on style of learning, helping his students make clocks, springload mechanisms, pressure switches, and all sorts of other mechanical toys. Aside from his famously mellow demeanor, however, he has one other trait students remember him for: an alarming tendency to forget just how much stronger he is than everyone else. Stories abound of him accidentally injuring students by casually handing them hundred pound wheels and mechanisms, or foisting tasks like holding up wagons to those who can't manage it."
Jorell Kazon,Unarmed and Improvised Combat," Jorell Kazon is an intensely humorless Aasimar man who by all appearances ran out of patience for his fellow man decades ago. He offers no lectures or practice; everything is sparring, and every mistake made is corrected by having the proper technique performed against the unfortunate pupil. The only reason he manages to keep any students among the living is because he is a skilled healer in his own right. "" Your body is the only weapon you have. All else is only borrowed. Borrow all you can, but master what you own."" His fighting style is very atypical as compared to the classical ideal of a martial artist. His ready stances are mostly poses that would not look out of place in polite conversation: clasped hands, folded arms, etc. He tends to open with throws, shoves, and two-handed strikes intended to deny opponents the footing they need to fight back, and continuing that momentum into the nearest wall or other environmental hazard."
Mali Kcarmb,Killing and the Con," Thin and elegant Mali's walk is more like a glide. He is in the corner of your eye unnoticed unless he needs you for something, like you've not sat a test and he needs you to sit it in his office. A relatively kind and friendly man, he makes everyone feel welcome. But thats the lesson he teaches, make everyone love you and they will never suspect you. Mali likes to tell the story of how he once killed a wealthy merchant in an alleyway, then stabbed himself in the side, called for help from the gaurds saying how he and his friend were attacked. Mali had spent 3 months making himself invaluable to the merchant and was left money by the merchant in his will with a note saying ""To the brother I never had."""
Granny Nightdale,Rumors and their manipulations," A Venerable elven lady, she looks disarming on her blue cardigan and simple silken robe. However, her vibrant green eyes are still sharp behind her thick glasses, there isn't much that escapes her; and her tongue is much sharper than most daggers. Her voice carries easily to get pupils, whether it is in the classroom or in the field, but her frquent coughs and ocasional slip to outdated slang make understanding her difficult. Sometimes when your target is too high profile to be able to dispose of it on the more classic methods, so it's just more expedient to, ahem, ""convince"" them that it's on their best interests to skip town, or to step down from their public position. Whether it is a blattant lie or an elegant knot of truths, Granny Nightdale has toppled Kings and Emperors by getting the right information to the wrong ears. (or the wrong information to the right ears) She cares about her students as much as a teacher can, and will happily spend some extra time with all those who ask her, but this doesn't make them immune to her tender mercies. Of anything, she tries harder to turn friends into foes, explaining that they should expect betrayal even from their most reused friends. However, she is not cruel, and those who manage to unravel her web, or even better, use it to further their own ends, receive a pair of enchanted earrings to boost their memory. It helps to keep their lies straight."
"Thurl deMarque ap Leistairre, esq.",Law," Thurl is not the sort of assassin one typically thinks of, all dark hoods and gleaming daggers. He is the type of assassin who walks in the front door, greeted by a nervous looking butler who sweats and smiles as he is seated with you, and then nods pleasantly and shares tea and anecdotes as you sign away your life and everything you hold dear. Thurl specializes in legal assassinations. He hunts his marks not through the streets at night, but through the courtrooms and temples of justice. Should you find yourself his target, the guards will be tipped off about every crime you have ever committed, the judges will be aware of every character foible you posses, and the executioner will be aware of what you did to his daughter. The hands of justice will turn against you. Or, if he cannot find sufficient evidence, you will find yourself in a string of profitable deals, quickly climbing he ladders of wealth and society until suddenly one deal goes sour, and a merchant believes you have cheated him. Once that happens, he tells his friends, end every contract is re-reviewed. They'll find that the ore you supplied was sub-par, the wine was vinegar and water, the coins you paid were clipped. In class, he shows his students not merely how to kill, but how to work the system, and turn their words into their weapons, killing with tongue and ink while the actual risk goes to the poor guardsman bringing you into trial."
Marcus Fletcher,Preparation and Planning," The first most common failing of assassins fresh out of college is a lack of foresight while performing a mission. Poison bottle cork get stuck, guard patrols are neglected, escape ropes are too short, the list goes on. The college deemed it necessary, therefore, to include a mandatory class to instill in students the basics of preparation and planning. Marcus Fletcher, having been the bottom of his class and having fought tooth and nail to his current status, learned the lessons he teaches the hardest way possible. Always check your equipment before proceeding. Always have a backup. Always have a way out. He is tough on his students, drilling them relentlessly and meticulously with his rules and refuses any compromise, for he knows that if he does not, he will have learned nothing in his entire career. Since the course became mandatory for students to study, the number of assassins who live beyond their first mission rose dramatically."
Archmage Douglas Wilhelm,Magical Applications in Assassinations," Sometimes, mages will pivot from their preferred line of study into the Assassin's College. Wilhelm is calm and collected, even while murdering a person. He teaches his students not only how to abuse their magical abilities in creative ways, but also teaches general magika useage and some specialized magika such as conjuration, manipulation and illusion. (He's not Archmage for nothing after all). The course encourages students to reflect on their magika, to observe its effects and use it for more than it's obvious usage. For example, one student learned to choke a target with her own wine by holding the fluid in her throat magically. Another student cast a fury spell on their target during a military inspection."
Kim Barth,Improvisation," While often looked down upon by many professionals, the ability to find solutions even when things go wrong is an useful skill nevertheless. Barth is excitable and takes a happy-go-lucky, if not completely flippant, attitude during her classes. She will often put her students into scenarios where they must use whatever tools around them to devise a plan within a set amount of time. They are graded on the time they take, the reliability of the plan, and how likely the student would die immediately after executing said plan. The course tends to attract jacks-of-all-trades and those who are mysteriously lucky."
Shajar al-Durr,Kidnapping and Ransom," A tall dark-skinned human female with regal bearing, Shajar al-Durr may seem like a genial teacher from those who haven't taken her class, but any graduate can tell you (potentially through tears) of her sharp and personal lessons. Having taken one king ransom in her past, Shajar al-Durr does not hesitate to take her student's loved ones for object lessons in class. Class description: The fine art of assassination is merely one tool of many to achieve your goals. Many would give their lives for a loved one. Kidnapping and ransom can give you a cover for political assassinations, or you can keep one of your successfully killed subjects seemingly alive for months, or, if you prefer a more manipulative approach, kidnap (take for treatment) a royal and act as their liaison while they are ""ill."""
Catherine Breshkovsky,Mundane Personas," Breshkovsky, a stout dwarf, exudes a matronly aura. Nicknamed ""The Babushka"", most students love her class. She is always saying that ""The best assassin is the one they least expect, and nobody even notices an old lady with a face like a wrinkled apple."" She has perfected her grandmotherly appearance and down-home appeal and encourages each assassin to find their ""mundane persona"" to extend into the world when being a polished assassin would stick out. She also recommends ways to hide your strength, for example, where with the Babushka you would see a rotund older dwarf woman bent with age, hauling some sticks, you do not process that her fat is actually entirely muscle, and her sticks are bristling with her swords. It is certainly jarring to see her demonstrations in class, where, in mere moments, she goes from hobbling about to a blurred whirlwind of blades and then back again."
Shagram Doon,Enticing the Masses and Guiding the Unguidable," His view: ""Why get your hands dirty if you can convince a crowd to do the work for you?"""
Rickert Oswald,Leaving a Mark," Rickert is a tan skinned human, wrinkles just starting to line his face and the color fading from his hair. This isn't uncommon with assassination instructors, as typically one doesn't become a teacher until they have retired. He teaches an art so often forgotten in a profession typically about covering up the messes they make, which is how to make an assassination look as grisly as possible. Clients who want their enemies to know they mean business seek him and his style out, as the body is found with marks of torture, or displayed in ways that invoke true horror. His most famous tale is a political assassination where he had managed to cook and prepare all the organs of his victim and lay them out at his estate for a dining party to find mere hours later. He enjoys telling this story as his class is eating lunch for the day, as he greatly enjoys the reactions. ""You don't need to make anyone suffer. As long as the remains make it look like they did, no one will even want to know the details."""
Gorg Aselif,From Sewers to Skylines: Blending in and getting out in all occasions," While there are many classes and ways to learn to get in and out of a kill, Gorg's class is one of the few that teaches you how to get from the sewer at noon, into the fancy ball before nightfall, and out the front gate a little past midnight while looking and smelling like you were invited. His tactics use previously learned material, such as moving through sewers and climbing buildings, and mixing in new methods such as stashing clothes and planting false evidence. The course also teaches other diversions, when to keep a low or high profile during an event, and how to properly judge the distance from a rooftop to the ground and tends to attract students that are less suited for an actual fight and more equipped to stir up a panic and leave. Gorg is a gnome with a varied past, supposedly raised by goblins and trained by noblemen, he teaches most lessons in the field, meaning in the sewers or on a roof, and often gets the class to go to royal balls, for free of course."
Dedon Greschmach,Tailing," Greschmach is a short, dark-haired half-elf who teaches how to follow a mark in cities, towns and ports. He teaches disguise, distraction and movement techniques so his students can follow anyone through any crowd. His upper-level courses also include crowd theory, and there are rumors that the riots in Sevendar last autumn were his doing..."
Maldova 'Quicart',advanced wet-work and murder scenery," Quicart was the name affectionately given to a young, Halfling, BnE and pickpocket artist with no father, and a whore of a mother. He was a prodogy, quickly surpassing long time felons and finding his niche as a reliable framing artist, and quick slit specialist. After half a lifetime murdering for money, he was recruited by your prestigious school, to teach and deal with any...liabilities. Seen as one of the more engaging teachers, Maldova entertains his classes with live demonstrations and games of find the teacher. He can always be seen picking at a pomegranate with any one of his ornate throwing knives, or charmingly whispering in any of the curvier students ears."
Sir Willem LaFortier,Last Resort Swordplay," A large but old human man, built like a buffalo, and with grey hair. A laboriously curated handlebar moustache exquisitely curled. He talks like a gentleman, acts like a gentleman, and expects great honour and decorum in his class. Looking for busywork after retirement, he is employed due to his skill at traditional swordplay - an assassin's final recourse."
"Blake ""Shadowblade"" Carn",Sleeping targets," Half-orc man, Blake moves like a cat, utterly silent, and has a penchant for surprising his students at innoportune times. Though in class he is deadly serious, outside he uses his skills to play playful and innocuous pranks on both students and teachers alike. His class focusses on dealing with situations where an assassin has to deal with sleeping foes, and ensuring constant stealth and awareness."
Freya Elardi,Information gathering," A high elf woman, Freya has flowing blonde hair, stunning good looks, eyes like an eagle, and a smug egotistical attitude. She teaches everything from spying to research to torture, in a varied yet harsh curriculum. Freya has spent hundreds of years perfecting her class, and brokes no failure from her students."
Lord Ashcrofte,Rumor Mongering," Lord Ashcrofte is a tall, thin man of somber demeanor with a knack for charm. Having spent the majority of his youth in various noble courts, he has developed the acquired taste for politics, with especial love for the power of whispers. Lord Ashcrofte will teach these skills to his hand-picked students for a price, a favor to be claimed at a time of his discretion. Lord Ashcrofte instructs individuals in the ways in which they can become a trusted confidant, an ear to whisper into, a shoulder to lean on, a mistress to the target - whatever it takes to get the information which is needed. After all, everyone has secrets which can be advantageous to the holder."
Quintius Auralea,In Plain Sight - The Fine Art and Etiquette of Honorable Murder," ""The way to a man's heart, they say, is through his stomach. But if you want to reach his brain, I recommend the eye socket."" The mechanism of the honor duel exists in nearly all cultures, and the daring assassin may bend it to his will to kill his target publicly, decisively, and (most importantly) legally. Quintius, once the Count of Imperia, is a master of this technique, which involves drawing the target into an honor duel through social maneuvering. And, of course, winning the duel. He presents himself as a squat little pudding of a human with a ruddy complexion and drooping eyes, which he later reveals is part of the game. ""The target must see you not as a predator, but as prey. Draw them in, then, like the viper, strike. The involvement of disguises, aliases, and poisons where necessary are recommended, and the establishment of a reputation is the death of this art."""
Janus of Undertown,Contacts and Conspirators," Once a member of the Thieves Guild (or two, or three), Janus began applying his talent for gathering and organizing people to the cause of murder only a few years ago. Strangely, the course of study is taught by a different person each day, reading from a long scroll. ""The greatest assassin,"" Janus writes, ""are never seen and never heard. This might imply stealth, but simple absence can suffice."" The class describes establishing and running relationships with a variety of agent types, including fanatics, patsies, hirelings, and even true partners."
PLEASE ADHERE TO THE FORMAT,The History of the Nobles," Welcome to the 1st event of the Academia Month: 10k Professors. For this event, let's brainstorming up 10k NPCs who are all professors. This collective list can include professors of any discipline! This list can then become a tool for any DM who needs a professor to just reach into and pull a fun one out. Perhaps, this will even inspire some interesting campaign ideas. There are currently 57,863 people on this subreddit. It should be fairly easy for us to get over 10,000 NPCs."
Redna Shortwit,Etiquette and Social Graces for Young Noble Women," She is stout, dowdy, only about five feet tall, but projects a grand and stately image. She is strictly proper. A modest and prudent puritan, and obstinate in her expectation of the same from her students. She professes a reverence for the patriarchal hierarchy and for the domestic position of women in the Kingdom of Prideline, she has been a leader in the education of hundreds of proper young women and, in the eyes of the Crown, has helped to embolden the stability of the status quo. The truth is that Professor Shortwit has for decades been the architect of an uprising. An army of fearless empowered young women in waiting, courageous and ready at a moments notice to execute a coup upon the King."
Erilar,"Headmistress, former Chair of Extraplanar Studies"," Erilar is a Tiefling sorcerer who devoted her life to studying the Great Old Ones. Unfortunately, they've taken no notice of her - in a better world, she'd be a warlock. Surprisingly, however, she is a genuinely good person. She believes that it is the duty of magic-users to improve the world around them and help others. How she imagines the Great Old Ones could possibly be part of this is anyone's guess."
Godmund,Vice-head of the University," Godmund is a male human warlock. He wants quiet order. Nothing elaborate, just everything to work the way it should. He will gladly hand off tasks to someone else if that means he can handle more important things. He is an overweight, slightly balding man who wears a look of general frustration all the time. His robes are disheveled and generally in disarray, and he tends to look like he’s not had time to get dressed. His complexion is generally blotchy and red. He, too, is interested in the Great Old Ones, much to Erilar's frustration."
Lota Riverbend,Abjuration Studies (and dabbles in Conjuration)," Lota is a female halfling, and is mainly motivated to prove herself. She takes mistakes very seriously, and will be much harder on herself than on others. Lota isn’t humorless, as she often feels the need to point out. She tells people that she likes to have fun, but no one has seen evidence of this. She needs to assert her power and her superiority, possibly because of being a Halfling. This strikes many people as odd, as Halflings are often very comfortable in who they are."
Fingali,Grimoierery and Spellbook Theory," Fingali is a male human wizard who specializes in the construction and theory of spellbooks and grimoires. He's well-versed in bookbinding, calligraphy, and runic arts, and is constantly making and re-making his own spellbook to make it ""The best it's ever been."" He has a very fine collection of old spellbooks. When - gods forbid - a fellow professor passes away, he has a very hard time holding back his urge to ransack the dead person's room. He has one book in his collection that he never shows anyone - the Black Grimoire of the Necromancer Tsyesende. It was thought lost, and he fears for his life if anyone should find out he has it. He is meticulous and detail-oriented, and has very little patience with sloppiness. Once his interest is piqued, however, he is unshakable."
John Quimbly,Professor of Runic Language," John Quimbly is a human male, who due to his surprisingly short stature is often mistaken for a gnome. He has brown hair and a short busy beard and looks fairly young despite his receding hairline. Professor Quimbly is an expert in runic languages, having published various books on decoding them. Unfortunately for his students, sometimes, the professor swaps into the runic languages, in moments of excitement, forgetting that he is teaching about them, not discussing them with someone of his own expertise."
Yagnar Orearm,Professor of Metallurgy," Yagnar Orearm is a Dwarf, very proud of being so, who teaches the science of metals: their properties, production, and purification in the Institute of Military Sciences in East Ravenheart. The Dwarf, grumpy and strict in nature, requires the absolute best from his students and accepts nothing but excellence on his examinations and practicum. However, many students report that outside of class, the dwarf makes a great advisor, for life and drink, and is an incredible arm wrestler. Once per term, the dwarf gives any student the chance to defeat him in an arm wrestling match in exchange for perfect marks on an examination. No student has ever conquered this challenge yet."
Wingle Grimblesnout,Professor of Olfaction," Professor Grimblesnout could easily be mistaken for a dwarf or a gnome simply due to his incredibly small stature, and the fact that he is so bent over that his head is level with his chest. Having been in a family of alchymists he was introduced to the craft at a young age. He always had an impeccable sense of smell, and no one quite knew why. The reason behind this is that he was infected with Lycantrhpy Rota when he was a child. In the laymans terms, he is a rat lycan. Grimblesnout has quite the passion for smell. making sure that his students know the importance of knowing every regent in your laboratory by smell, he really revels in particular odours, some of them delightful, some of them less so. He is especially fascinated by powerful smells, whether it is the delightful aroma of an effervescent love potion. Or the overbowering stench of a troglodyte. Smells just fascinate him. He tends to forget that having Troglodyte extract shoved up your nose, doesn't really excite the students as much as it excites himself, and of course anyone lucky enough to be out of noseshot. Don't ask him what Olfaction is. In his eyes, the science of smell, is the groundwork to every other important science."
Ved Sharpsnout,"Chair and founder of the Dept. of ""Traps and Other things Relating to Them,"" former Prof. of ""Home Defense Through Any Means"""," None but the headmistress know how a lowly kobold managed to secure a position as a professor at the university, but here he stands, nonetheless. Ved is rather tall for a kobold, standing just over 3 feet in height, and is quite excitable. It is clear to any who take his classes that the kobold is passionate about his field, and from the testimony of those who have taken any of the scaly professor's classes, Ved is a surprisingly enjoyable teacher, who is genuinely invested in his students' works. While he isn't the most intelligent person in the world, he makes up for it with immense creativity and unwavering determination. Still, creativity and determination alone doesn't prevent the poor kobold from becoming the unfortunate victim of nearly all of the jerry-rigged traps he shows as an example to the class. Ved, along with a small following of his former students, were able to found a new department (which Ved personally named and is immensely proud of), with the headmistress's approval, in order to better inform future adventurers and dungeon-crafters alike about the intricacies of trap design."
Cardon Coldsorrow,The Scriptures of Jundard of the Sun," Coldsorrow is half-orc Cleric of Jundard, a minor sun god with a small monastic community. The library is mainly full of scriptures collected from the few prophets the religion has gathered over the years, and it is Coldsorrow's dream to be able to compile them into a proper holy book. Until then, he seeks out visionaries and converts, and writes down every decision the head of his order makes, all in a hope of finding a unified dogma. He's unusually short for a Half-Orc, but solid, and his usually cheerful demeanor fades when he drinks. Before taking up the Clergy, he was a soldier in a failed war."
Raxton Dafner,Professor of the Barbaric Arts," Raxton is a Dwarf with an extraordinarily short temper, this has lead him into the Barbarian class where he has learned to control and manipulate his rage. Raxton is a mature balding Dwarf who has no time for messing around, when you are in his class he expects complete attention. Very often in his class you will be taken on ""field trips"" into the surrounding area where Raxton is known to rage and demonstrate his abilities to the class."
Cormik Lash,Actionable Artifice for the Active Adventurer," Cormik is short even by rock gnome standards, reaching only 3 feet tall. However, he compensates for his short stature by standing and pacing on his paper strewn desk during lecture. Students have a hard time taking him seriously in his oil-stained trench coat, threadbare top hat, and obscenely unkempt handlebar mustache."
Reese Wizardspoon aka Mr. Universe,Greater Illusory Theory; Opening your Mind's Eye," Reese is a rather young and out of place professor thrust into the spotlight by his elaborate illusions performed on the streets. His recent addition to the college does not sit well with many of the tenured professors who see him as a goth-dressed charlatan with the nonchalance of a spoiled brat. He is, in fact, all of those things."
Osborn Goodbarrel,History and Culture of Halfling Society," For many years, Professor Goodbarrel taught the young Halflings in his burrow. However, many of his students have left the burrow to travel the world - the latest trend amongst adolescent Halflings. At the moment, Professor Goodbarrel enjoys teaching the few remaing youngsters, but he has considered going on a journey himself, to see what all the fuss is about."
Faelen Leororis,"Former Professor of Poetic Studies, currently Head of the Drama Club"," Faelen Leororis taught poetry for many decades, and even though she was notorious for her high demands, her courses were actually quite popular. Her current project is the adaptation of a great Elven epic into a theater performance."
Jofrit Windshield,Social Studies and Philosophy," Anyone who strays too close to 'Professor' Windshield's regular table at the ""Drunk Skunk"" will be immediately enter his ""School of Hard Knocks"". Here, he imparts on his more or less willing students the lessons he learned during his life. Students who are willing to give this perpetually drunken Dwarf a secod chance may, however, learn something more profound than they had expected."
Terrence Fitterleigh,Tenured Professor of Illusory Menageries," For many years Terrence's lanky frame slumped behind a pulpit, shoulders sagging, eyelids drooping. He had been proclaimed a wunderkind in his field of illusion decades earlier, achieving in years what renowned elven wizards take decades to accomplish. It was only when he rediscovered his childhood dream of interacting with great, exotic beasts- and found he could, in his own way, bring them to life- that his love for his work was rekindled. He's currently attempting to create a complete set of parchment cards that will allow the animals to interact with each other- although once he's completed it, who knows what he'll do with it, and the tedium of academia will no doubt come crawling into his life again. I recently reread /u/LiberatedCapsicum 's post on Magic the Cardening and I'm looking for a way to squeeze it into my next campaign from the get-go. This seemed like a good fit!"
Samuel Sodder,Professor of Magical Herbology," A hulking man who footsteps crash through the halls Samuel inspires fear in his students. This firebolg stands near 8 feet tall and usually carries with him at least one book for either pleasure reading, research, or class. New students fear him until they take his class however, then they understand he is a soft spoken, kindly individual. He understands that not all students have vast interest in the world of magical plants and their many beneficial properties but he never the less expects his students to try. His office equally suited for him. No desk, just several large bookshelves, a fire place and several squashy armchairs. Students who choose to come to his office hours can expect to be stuck in a lengthy chat for upwards of an hour for a simple question. His passion and appreciation for his subject is endless and he hopes to instill that in his students. As a result his students tend to try harder in his class, less out of interest in the class but more out of appreciation for the professor."
Ortyn Lutraine,Urban Demography: Race Relations in Novo Kharkus," Skyrocketing to academic fame with his recent treatise on the use of human negotiators in tackling Dwarven gang wars, Ortyn Lutraine is the poster child of Altus University's Sociology Department. The young human is as often found sitting in on council meetings to advise on civil unrest issues as he is charming students in his lecture theatre: his foppish mop of brown hair, dazzling grin and red velvet waistcoat seem tailored to the latter, however. Flamboyant appearance aside, the Professor is an inspiring man, delivering impassioned speeches fluently in any of the five languages of Novo Kharkus. If anyone were to meticulously trace the sacks of gold allocated to Lutraine's field work, however, they would find substantial amounts in the hands of Dwarven militants and High Elven supremacists alike. Having stepped into the scholastic spotlight and enjoyed the perks it brings, Lutraine is remaining relevant for years to come..."
Verisimilitude Merkins,Professor of the Illusionary Arts, A handsome middle-aged male Tiefling who is a hit with most of the students and faculty. He is rumored to have crossed certain student-teacher boundaries more than a few times. Alumni of the schools he has taught at tend to develop arguments about what he looks like.
Brinto,Professor of Irritatingly Repetitive Melodies That Get Stuck In Your Head For Days And Just As you've Forgotten About Them Someone Walks Past You Humming Them," A balding, blonde, half-elf who is always under-dressed. Professor (""Please, just Brinto"") Brinto is clearly something of an outsider to the faculty. He spends most of his time under the largest tree upon campus absentmindedly strumming his 9-string Lute. He never teaches formal classes, preferring instead to spend his time in one on one sessions with students he has dubbed 'visionaries'. Murmurings amount the faculty suggest he was expelled from several bardic colleges and only retains a position at his current location because he holds knowledge over the Arch-Chancellor."
Ruklau the Knobbed,Experimental transmutation magic," Short, ugly, misshapen fellow who looks a bit like a goblin crossed with a warthog crossed with a dirty leather knapsack. A tuft of black feathers juts out of his left eyebrow, and his right hand is a gnarled, arthritic claw. Despite his appearance, he is well-spoken and very articulate, and it's difficult to tell what his original race was. He doesn't seem the least bit concerned about his looks, and is certainly capable of changing his form, but no one knows why he chooses to look the way he does. He's always surrounded by the scent of aromatic pipesmoke, and particularly enjoys when the university chef prepares mutton stew."
Rosaline DeVoute,Woodworking and Survival Skills," Rosaline is a tall and fragile woman. Standing at 6'3 she is very quick and nimble on her feet. Long white hair flows and borders her small fragile face. While she gives the cold shoulder to most, her students know her as a kind and gentle soul. She wishes only the best for her students and wants everyone to learn basic survival. While she loves the outdoors, nothing can be out of place."
Avyer Thornen,Royal Etiquette and Duties," Avyer is an extremely proper (to the point of appearing snobbish) elf. This is largely due to his responsibility: Avyer has been the private tutor for more than a dozen generations of young human princes and princesses. Though he is mostly out of the picture by the time a ruler comes of age, Avyer is quite possibly the most powerful elf in the human kingdoms, and is always well regarded by his former pupils."
Prestor Brine,Non-mundane Animal Husbandry," This professor is short-of-stature, with large gesticulations when recounting one of their countless stories on the field. Though they come across as blunt or loud to others, there is a quiet calmness when interacting with magical beasts. On both accounts, they are quick to attend to any action that subtle, passive aggressive, or ""raises flags""."
Milton Treadmoor,"Magic in Cosmetology: Skills, Theory, and Ethics"," This tenured elven professor has made a name for himself both in academia and business. No one is just quite sure how much of his work goes into his own flawless appearance, but many pranks of Dispel Magic have not yet revealed the answer. Despite the foppish demeanor, he is utterly serious about his work and refuses to teach anyone less dedicated. There are rumors that he wants to establish his own dedicated beautician school."
Frida Darringer,"TA, Primordial 101", She is a gifted tiefling with a fear of public speaking. Not that she is in public much; she tends to be deep in research or doing work for colleagues she was too meek enough to refuse. Her favorite activity is talking at length to students about shared interests.
Hamish,ninja edit," An aged human with fading white hair and a tranquil presence. He is not a conventional professor, certainly not by trade. The most detailed of his past is that of a retired adventurer's, who ended a bout of globetrotting at the University he now resides in. Though he never speaks of his adventuring days, whatever he experienced doubtlessly impacted the man's mission to help the mentally-affected. It is also thought to have impacted his own sanity as well..."
Hermann Kremmler,Dean of Arcanarcheology," Kremmler is an old human man with a bent back and thinning grey hair, fond of wearing patterned skullcaps to cover his head. He is ornery and grumpy at the best of times, but he is also one of the leading experts on magical items from previous civilizations. In spite of his advanced age, his general style of teaching is to bring students along to ruins and dungeons and lecture in between traps being sprung and skeletons coming to life. Some have accused him of using his students as expendable fodder so he can make more discoveries, but his fellow staff are willing to overlook any ""accidental"" deaths so long as his discoveries bring the university acclaim and funding."
Johan Alkenstav,Professor of Religious Artifacts," A musclebound human man who would honestly look more at home in a gladiatorial pit than a classroom, Alkenstav's gregarious attitude draws in students from all over the university. He works closely with the local clergy to identify magical items of a divine origin and is remarkably open-minded in terms of religion, even collaborating with followers of faiths looked down upon in the city. This has caused him no end of trouble, but a combination of tenure and an odd friendship with Hermann Kremmler have kept him employed and teaching."
Alienor Serre,Visiting Professor of Underdark Botany and Medicine," Serre is an elven woman visiting from one of the forest enclaves. She keeps her platinum blonde hair pulled back into a ponytail, her face set in a polite but cold expression. She doesn't speak much of her time back in the enclaves, but many suspect that she was a slave that escaped the drow before she became a visiting professor at the university. Those who believe this theory point to her area of expertise and how much she knows of the medicinal properties of the various fungi and lichens endemic to the Underdark. Serre remains silent on the subject."
Instructor Aamin Marritza,Proper Filing Systems and Book Keeping in the Military," Marritza is a grey scaled Yuan-Ti Mallison (Type 1) who served in the military as a filing clerk. He was regarded as a superb military employee and his filing system was considered a masterpiece of meticulous exactitude. In all his years he never lost a single file and was offered a post at the military academy as an instructor to teach filing. He is very punctual, very thorough and very, very orderly. A single pencil out of place is almost insulting to him, a messy desk almost incorrigibly barbaric. Beyond that he is a very patriotic but also very moral man with no taste for torture, senseless killing and cruelty of any kind. In private he has uttered misgivings about past conflicts and the war crimes commited during those. His current location is unknown."
Merrik Thicktail,"Taxonomy and Gastronomy of Swamp Creatures, Great and Small"," Merrik is of average height, but his course of study and eating habits keep him as close to obese and any lizardfolk can be. The course (known to students as ""T and G"") is a field study of fauna of a local swamp where Merrik and students learn to classify several species of creatures ranging from dragonflies to alligators and learn preparation techniques for several 'cultural delicacies' of the lizardfolk tribe that inhabits the swamp. Field gear and anti-acids recommended and additional fees may be charged for spices."
Rogo Morihei,Philosophy & Martial Wisdom," Morihei is an aged male Dragonborn with narrow eyes and faded silver scales. He wears a long, stiff beard and loose, simply adorned robes. His bushy whiskers extend low, blending seamlessly with his white beard. ""The Way of the Warrior has been misunderstood. It is not a means to kill and destroy others. Those who seek to compete and better one another are making a terrible mistake. To smash, injure, or destroy is the worst thing Dragonkind can do. The real Way of a Warrior is to prevent such slaughter - it is the Art of Peace, the power of love."""
Quintus Epicurus,"Arch-Mage of The Geddaye Order, and Professor of Advanced Classified Arcana"," Arch-Mage Quintus is an innocuous looking human man of about 60 years. He wears the same indigo robes and enormously wide brimmed black hat everyday. He allows them to grow dingier with each passing day, despite having the ability to simply prestidigitate them into perfect condition with the snap of his fingers. Being too busy for even that, Quintus has a multitude of better ways to spend his time and he keeps track of all of them in his head. Well .... almost all of them. He often forgets about his ""Classified Arcana"" class when his attention is on important research. In fact, he only shows up to about a third of the classes, much to the chagrin of his peers in the College of Geddaye. He is supremely gifted in his intuition of Arcane arts, having mastered all 5 schools in only 30 years of study. There are whispers amongst the senior members that Quintus should be removed from the post of Arch-Mage in favor of someone with more... experience. After all, Quintus is the first Human to run the Geddaye in a millennia."
Evelyn Nate,Conjuration and Infernal Studies," Professor Nate appears as a stern woman, wih sharp features that seem just on the cusp of middle age. She is known as a harsh but fair teacher, and anyone who gets top marks in her class is considered a rising star at the school. While she doesn't appear particularly old, the school records indicate she taught many famous wizards who are well into their old age, or even dead many years. Her seemingly wternal youth is the source of much speculation among students, ranging from an infernal pact, to being a pit fiend disguised as a mortal woman."
Philister Carnival,Artifact crafting," Well known to academia as a master of his craft, he is also well known among his local peers as ""The Childish Professor"". While his perpetual enthusiasm is on first meeting intoxicating, his often meandering trains of thought, unrestrained manners and know-it-all arrogance can become tiresome if no-one is there to keep him in check. While many can criticize his person, nobody can deny that it is his odd imagination that has allowed him to make many advances in the field of magical items. Most of his students just study from the textbook."
Grace Akita,Tea-making," While her course is often joked to be ""caveman's potion-maker"", the art of making tea is one that teaches less of the substances that are produced and more of simple meditation. Nobody has ever heard her raise her voice louder than necessary, and she is known for having the patience of a statue. Her lessons often stick with her students and show through in other fields such as advanced magika, fine arts and politics. When she is not teaching, she can be found meditating in her classroom with a hot kettle nearby for anyone who wishes to join her."
Elyseus Longgrass,are," In all of the courses he teaches, he is praised by the students for his performence capabilities, and for the ability to explain difficult things in simple terms. He is rumored to work on some crazy idea -- something about shooting himself on the moon in giant firework rocket. It's probably fake news though..."
Valentin Beaulieu,Dean of the Department of Enchantment and Charms," Professor Beaulieu is a charismatic dreamboat. A very charismatic dreamboat. It seems he is friends with everyone: students, faculty and beyond. Seen from the outside, the devotion he inspires actually seems a bit creepy and might lead one to suspect him of using his powers for evil. In actuality Valentin is just a really nice person to be around. He isn't even that good an enchanter, but have gotten promoted again and again, due to how much the head of the university likes him. He doesn't think he deserves the position, but he doesn't want to embarrass his friend, so he just does his best. Though, at least the students love him, and his underlings do their best to cover for their beloved dean."
Tryskin Bridgetpants,Professor of Applied Life Sciences and Regeneration," Professor Tryskin is an energetic gnome with a short stature, an impressive moustache and an eternal love for his field. If you get him talking, you'll be hard pressed to get him to stop talking, as he wanders from subject to subject to off-kilter tangent. It is a moderately well kept secret that Tryskin is working on a cloning program to allow certain individuals of wealth and power to survive in a new body, if they should suffer an accident with their old one. It is a secret known only to the clone masquerading as Tryskin that the real Tryskin has been on vacation for the past seven months. The clone is getting worried, since Tryskin really should have been back by now."
Crael Dusken,Professor of Heraldry," An unassuming, mousy woman with long blond hair, Crael loves the study of Heraldry and the study of noble lineages. She hates students. She hates people asking her questions. If everyone would just leave her alone to her studies everyone would be much better off. Her colleagues have taken to borrow scrolls and books from her extensive collection to answer questions for inquiring souls, rather than subject them to her acerbic personality."
Durkin Trollkiller,Professor of Monstrous Metahumans," This stout dwarf with the big bushy black beard has found a new profession after his previous one as a monster hunter. He doesn't have any particular love for the subject, but he has learned a lot about it by necessity, and has found that the career as a professor is less dangerous than his previous one. He does need to stop filling half his class room time with anecdotes, if he wants to keep the position."
Professor Hornsby,Professor of Archaeology and Ancient Artifice," Professor Hornsby is a typical dottering academic who loves to dig through ancient ruins to unearth ancient artifacts. He specializes in ancient writing, especially arcane runes, scrolls, and diagrams for lost magical constructs. Although he loves digging through ruins, he is rarely prepared for the dangers of what has since taken up residence, having no adventuring experience. His studies have taught him to cast up to third level spells, but he mostly prepares spells to help in his studies more than in combat, like Gust of Wind to clear sand from a ruined tablet."
Kimri Godsblade,Dwarven Historian," Descended from a family of faithful Paladins of Moradin, Kimri bucked tradition a bit by becoming a scholar. She still retains some of the faith and training her parents instilled in her, but now she focuses on traveling the world to collect the histories of dwarvenkind from all kinds of isolated villages, from the lowlands to the hills to the swamps, in the hope of piecing together the true origin of her dwarves and publishing it in her magnum opus."
Quilton Maxim,Professor of Physics," A devout, human professor who spends much of his time on his research and experimenting, however in truth, and it is known to his colleagues, he is a remarkably unremarkable individual. Having short brown hair and glasses while always wearing dull clothing, he has not contributed anything of note to the department or to his students, boring most of his students to death with pointless lectures. He does however, spend much of his time in the canyon near town observing rocks fall."
Babus Turalius,Professor of Archaeology and Language," An old, renowned Dwarven hero who adventured the lands in his youth, Babus now teaches at Zarditar's University of Magic. He has long, gray hair that matches his equally long beard, and has a large, muscular figure. He loves to take his students to primary sites of research, such as abandoned ruins or excavation sites, and give them real-hand experience with the subject, something he believes is invaluable. He is known for his quirky, circular glasses that he always wears."
Dianne LeMont,Professor of Alchemy," Dianne LeMont is an elegant woman from an exotic country. She has a sharp face, platinum blonde hair, and piercing, icy blue eyes. Her specialization is Alchemy, with specific interest in extracting the poison of Arachnids. Because of this fascination, she has a hidden closet dedicated to Spiders, including a full-body latex spider suit..."
Captain Onestorm,Tactical Training for Battlefield Combat," Battle-worn, scarred and broken, but still as thick as a tree. Longor Onestorm, Captain to his students, The Hammers of Windspire to many songs and scrolls, has never lost his great courage, or his mirthful spirit. Great physical strength borne of a hard-scrabble childhood, the man is broad and tall. Having spent many years at war, he has lost much and yet he is always genial and full of hopeful optimism. Those he prepares for battle take away much more than skill in the art of melee. They learn from Longor the value in seeing each enemy as more than a monster, in imagining him complexly and understanding that his conviction is as great as their own. And, in the end, having the courage still to kill him in service to the cause; this, Longor holds, is true nobility."
Kroggar Thindleburn,Visiting professor of Survival Among Larger Folk, Kroggar is an odd appearance in civilized society as he is a red kobold and insists on wearing clothing that accentuates his figure and natural beauty as he puts it and while some my find him unappealing there is no disputing he is an expert in his field. He is middle aged for a kobold and often shows disdain towards the larger races while assisting the smaller folk who take his classes. Kroggar treads a close line as he has been brought up to the university board a number times for down marking the taller of the humans and elves that take his class and passing failing shorter students.
Zachariah MacRuaidri,Professor of Demonology and Abyssal Linguistics," Narrow-build and towering over most of his students and fellow professors, Xanthras is an individual of very few words and even fewer public appearances. When he does interact with others, the albino speaks his mind and with only the bare-bones of syntactical structure to get his point across as quick and simple as possible. When he doesn't teach his admittedly quite small courses on psyionics, he keeps to the university archives and tends to the tens of thousands of books with almost feverish tenacity and fanatic devotion - often not so subtly threatening painful, sometimes even lethal consequences to any fool who might damage one of the precious scrolls or almanacs. Most of the student body, and quite a few of his colleagues are relieved that he mostly keeps to the library. After all, even to the most seasoned of adventurers and arcanists, an honest to the gods Illithid can and will invoke a feeling of unsettling dread - even if he wears a professor's robes. With his fiery hair, sunken-in green eyes, pointed nose and lanky stature, Zachariah resembles more a crazed, animated scarecrow than a regular human being, and is known for his snide, with colloquialism and broad accent-riddled remarks and the sheer limitless supply of whiskey he is somehow able to pull from the insides of his coat. It is universally agreed on that the only reason he has not been kicked out of the university yet, is the fact that 1) despite his eccentrism and occasional spouts of jackassery, he is a very dedicated and capable teacher, 2) he possesses vast and intricate knowledge of the Abyss and its inhabitants, no doubt related to the warlock's fiendish patron, and 3) he proved himself to be absolutely willing to put an accidentally released glabrezu in a headlock if it meant protecting his students."
'Art' Damakos,potent, Edit: Some spelling.
Bezeldore the Blue,Hydromancy and the Finer Aspects of Bathing," A bright-eyed, portly gnome with a welcoming smile and a light blue beard that is dyed regularly to retain its lustre. He is usually dressed in dirty, smeared robes and is always accompanied by an imp named Selimvad who carries Bezeldore's books. When not lecturing classes at The Starry Wisdom School for the Gifted, he can be found sculpting ice statues, reading a lengthy tome or performing short plays in the city square with his ice constructs."
Shanu the Binder,Strategic Enchantment and War-scrying," Shanu is a slender dryad with a surprising affinity for studied magic and the nature of war. How she can live so far from her tree is likely beyond anyone's guess, but her mysterious green robes may have something to do with it — not that she'd give a straight answer if one were to ask. She is usually pleasant when meeting new people, but suffers no fools. She is particularly protective of her students at The Auerbach Circle Institute ('saplings' as she affectionately refers to them) and will not hesitate to dispatch anyone who appears to be a threat to the school."
Lorne Proudstump,Herbalism Professor," Dirt on his coat, moss on his hat, and a smile that seldom leaves his face, Professor Proudstump is often a pupils favourite. Small, even for a gnome, he radiates an upbeat energy, genuinely in love with his field of study and eager to pass that love on. He is often seen trying to convince some of the more magically inclined staff to teleport him to other planes, in hopes of getting new and exciting 'friends'. He does not abide people treating his plants poorly, and will threaten to prune the fingers of students who do so. It has only happened twice, and its rumored if he snips a third finger, he will be fired."
Fonix the Barbarian,crash courses on Goliath cuisine," Fonix is a male goliath with deep green piercing eyes, extremely pragmatic, he with zeal tries the best to cook and eat the inedible, he dreams to one day be able cook even the common pebble into a dish worthy of the gods, cries if in the presence of anyone noticeably hungry."
Gertrude Rosenburger,Spell Pronunciation 101," Gertrude always speaks with perfect enunciation, to the point that it is almost annoying how much she will slow down multi-syllabic words in order to emphasize certain parts. Gertrude is an elf with a very pronounced pair of lips. When she is not speaking actively, they are puckered. She wears a black gown and carries several of what she calls ""dud"" spell components for teaching class."
Jarl Goondugg,Somatic Components for Basic Spellcasting," Jarl is a decrepit tiefling who wears a series of hats with holes for his curved, black horns. He has light purple skin, and wears a series of decorative bracelets a la Johnny Depp. Jarl is but 3 months away from retirement, and it definitely shows in how much his hands shake. The tremors in his hands (due to his age) have a way of twisting the spells he teaches, much to the dismay of his cautious students."
Leowick Hieg,Weaving," This grizzled old man sports a beard that gets shorn, like his sheep, twice a year. He is patient and enjoys the company of people, but is slow to trust. He keeps a ledger with records of whom he owes favors to, but does not track the favors he is owed. He teaches courses in animal husbandry, and his pupils learn the skill of making cloth starting from the birth of a lamb. Only the most advanced students are allowed access to the workshop with the looms."
Melinda Court,Philosophy," Melinda is a tall human woman in her sixties with very dark skin, her graying hair tied back in many small braids, then gathered in a bun. Her wrists clatter with wooden jewelry, and she's always accompanied by the scent rose perfume. She can be found around campus on sunny days, lounging in the grass with her students as they discuss ethical theory and the nature of truth as equals. In her spare time, she secretly publishes controversial anarchist pamphlets under the pseudonym 'A Thoughtful Lady', where she calls for the end of all social hierarchies."
Arelias Verisaren,Elven Studies," Arelias is a slight high elf clad in colorful silk scarfs, with long silver hair and brows arched in an expression of wry amusement. He specializes in contemporary northern high elf poetry and the Elvish language, but as his university's token elf, he has diversified to teach classes on elven history, culture, and religion. With a dry wit and cynical sense of humor, Arelias is popular among his students, less so among his fellow staff. The students he develops close relationships with tend to confide in him, and he knows all manner of secrets. Arelias is married to the dwarven professor of history, Korren Silvervein, and the two can often be seen observing, assisting, and substituting in one another's classes."
Korren Silvervein,History," Korren is well-built dwarf under is his tailored suits, his dark hair neatly trimmed, with olive colored eyes that beam benevolently from behind a pair of half-moon spectacles. He teaches the history of several civilizations, particularly that of human and dwarven kingdoms. Korren has a fatherly air, with a patient but serious manner that makes students inclined to please him. More than a few envied historical tomes and artifacts are secreted away in his personal collection. Korren is married to the elven professor of elven studies, Arelias Verisaren, and the two can often be seen observing, assisting, and substituting in one another's classes."
Theda Norwood,Physics and Chemistry," One of the few faculty members at her university whose subject does not deal with the arcane, Theda has throughout her career been passionate about the value of learning about the universe(s) through a physical, rather than magical, lens. She is a short, good-natured human woman whose hands are perpetually stained with various chemicals, and she'll be perfectly willing to talk for hours about the recent scientific advances in the study of motion and the behavior of gases. She's very easily excited, and loves to learn."
Sage Octavia Nymphidia,"Headmistress, formerly Application of Magical Theory: Advanced Transmutation"," A tall, poised, and long-suffering sun elf, Octavia was one of the most stern transmutation professors at Hellenes University. Tardiness is not tolerated except in the case of major injury, malady, or magical mishap. Her exam practicums also had a reputation for being exceedingly difficult. Even as headmistress, she continues to tolerate no shenanigans from students, and only barely from certain faculty members. The root of this sternness is her omnipresent no-nonsense seriousness. Normally this would be intimidating, but Octavia's possibly subconscious penchant for theatrics makes it quite comical. Not that anybody will say it to her face, of course, but the ""Octavia the Bard"" can be heard in whispers about her from students and faculty alike."
Gavin Megarit,"Herbalism, Alchemy, and creation of useable consumables"," He is broad and imposing. Prefers to dress in work clothing and avoids fancy, formal outfits. His classes are fast-paced and students are often challenged to keep up. He is a great teacher for those students who have an inclination for the fields, but has no time or patience for those who have trouble following along. His homework assignments are in-depth to say the least; some former students have claimed to have PTSD from his assignments."
Professor Windil Bimbleton,Head Researcher Of Positive Energy," An eccentric hafling that stands three and a half feet tall. He is high energy which he always claims is a result of the miracle working properties of positive energy. He has knowledge about the plane, substance, and spiritual nature of positive energy. He can go on for hours about the stuff. If asked he can provide accurate information about negative energy as well but doesn't seem as passionate about it. He also has a collection of manuscripts he wrote himself on varying subjects all some how tying into positive energy. One of his more unusual beliefs is that positive energy is the substance that makes up souls and therefore is part of the natural procreation cycle of all life."
Ermgurd Longbreath,Head Researcher Of Negative Energy," Ermgurd is the head researcher of negative energy at the same university as Windil. She is a slightly short half orc woman. She has a heavy fatigued brow and she rarely expresses much emotion. She can answer almost any question about negative energy, undead, the plane of negative energy/shadowfell, or necromancy. She doesn't talk much and barely holds conversation. She has an odd yet understandable friendship with Windil. They work fairly closely."
Melkin Vasnin,Head Of Extra Planar Studies," A gaunt half-elf male with a narrow face. He talks with sophistication and uses as many big words as he can. Some times he makes up new words when he feels that he can't express something with normal ones. He has knowledge about planar things. His focus is usually on the upper planes (Heaven, Utopia, etc.) although he can help with any plane. The more obscure the plane is the more he avoids talking about it. He believes all planes are just a strange demiplane of some greater plane. Every plane is encompassed by a bigger plane. He points to the Astral Sea and other such large planes as a good example."
Kraddic Cobbhearth,Philosophy of Babarianism," Professor Cobbhearth is a halfling of middle age, with all the youth and vigor of one much younger. Built lean with a deep chest and broad shoulders he has strong arms and powerful legs. He is cagey and gleeful in his ferocity and he has a deep and impassioned reverence for primal rage, an emotion that he believes to be the only authentic thing a true warrior can feel in battle. While those raised in barbarian tribes either do not take to contemplative endeavors, or follow those endeavors far and away from the barbaric battle arts, Kraddic Cobbhearth embraced and enjoined the two. A professor keen on active praxis over hollow pontificating, his classroom is in the field. He is glad for his tenure as a professor, and has great respect for those students who veer from the traditional barbarian path into his class and into the underexplored study of barbaric philosophy. You can see him most days in the yard, his bald head bobbing and weaving around training weapons, and his great copper mustache, reaching to his knees and bedecked in gems and rings and bones, swaying as he deftly moves. Many years of deeply philosophical self-reflection has given Kraddic a level of emotional control uncommon among barbarians, fortunately for his students as his prowess in battle is surpassed only by a very few great dwarves and orcs of legend."
Percival Sparktrap,Archaeology & the Study of Ancient Civilizations," Percy is a middle aged gnome of roughly three feet five inches who wears spectacles at all times and sports a rather haggard looking beard that's never quite filled out. He has tired, sorrowful eyes having seen many friends come and go all the while handling the stresses of working in some of the most dangerous locations in the world. He is a man of science and learning is his driving passion, even when it gets him into trouble. He and his wife Tilde are field researchers who lead expeditions for the Gnomish Research Academy and Museum (or GRAM for short, pun intended). Unfortunately, his risk-prone lifestyle has caught up with him and Percy now bears very serious scars over the right side of his head and shoulders where he was caught in the blast of a stray Fireball."
Jhoira Douglass (neé Teamorr),Advanced Alchemical and Mechanical Artifice," Jhoira is a female human wizard around 35 years of age. She was dropped off at the Academy at the age of 8, and excelled in her studies to the point where she was asked to stay on as a professor after graduation. As such she has not left the academy town in 24 years. For her dissertation, Jhoira ""gave life"" to several humanoid constructs that now inhabit the town around the academy and pioneered the field of alchemical artifice. Her life revolves around academia and has an almost visceral distaste for small-talk. [DM's note: if a PC asks her about anything other than her or her husband's research you should answer whimperingly and in as few words as possible]. However, when speaking about her or her husband's research her gregarious, bubbly, passionate personality shines through."
Tavish Douglass,Rare and Ancient Languages," Tavish is an Elvish (raised by humans) Fighter-Wizard who's 342 years on this world have been filled with a few too many adventures. Over the course of his adventuring has learned nearly every language (he only knows insults in undercommon but claims that is all one needs to know). He retired from adventuring after losing his right leg and left arm protecting a nearby town from an ancient blue dragon 10 years ago. He now has mechanical limbs (of equal - perhaps greater - strength and dexterity to his previous limbs) made by Jhoira. He is a truly magnanimous individual and is the most energetic individual in every room that he is in. He misses adventuring but has accepted that his mechanical appendages require too much care for him to ever adventure again. Because of this, he loves to live vicariously through the lives and stories of any adventurers he comes across."
Who are these merry magic-makers?,"The pretty little thing smiles as she beckons you onward along the narrow trail, swaying back and forth suggestively as she flies. You know you should follow the main path, but there something about her that you can't resist..."," Between here and /r/DMAcademy, there seems to have been a small run on Feywild posts of late. So let's populate some faerie forests with faeriefolk—pixies, sprites, nixies, nymphs, satyrs, you-name-it. I love pixies and sprites a bit too much, even in a dark, low-magic world, a region of a forest where there is a small community of tiny faeries is a grand opportunity to inject some wonder and to cause light-hearted trouble for the big folk. And, a faerie village can serve as a hub for NPCs, plot hooks, and small-scale supplies in regions of the world that is largely devoid of civilization. The NPCs don't have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could quickly fill in what's missing."
Meliorn of the Unseelie Court,Male Archfey Lord," Platinum blond hair, bright blue eyes, pale skin, wearing spider-silk garments fit for Llolth, emblazoned with gems that gleam like star light. Meliorn is a schemer- calm, patient, and seductive in his ways. Among other archfey, he's not particularly strong, but he seeks power through mortal achievement. He's been known to cut deals with the unwary and the desperate, and will send false-prophets into the world that can grant 'wishes' to the common folk in exchange for a favor in the future. Meliorn collects and saves these favors. To his debtors, these favors are an unbreakable obligation, which carry on into the afterlife."
Whit Wrencaller,Male Pixie Woodcarver," Whit makes carved wooden curiosities—mostly toys and book ends. He makes a fair number of flutes and recorders, but if you want a real treat, you'll catch him while he has one of his fiddles in stock. A perfectionist, Whit trashes nine out of every ten fiddles he starts making. If you're lucky, you'll catch him when he breaks out his own tiny fiddle. When his nimble hand dances across the fingerboard, you can't help but tap your toes and take up the dance too."
Daisy Dewpetal,Female Pixie Landlady/Barmaid," Daisy is cute as a button with iridescent red hair, pouty lips, and golden wings. Daisy runs the Twig and Thistle Inn. She serves some mighty fine pixiewine, and when she dances, you can't help but watch her sway. Her dancing is full of sorrow and passion. Daisy doesn't smile near as much as she used. She's been running the inn on her own since her partner Glip met an unfortunate end."
Old Fox Featherbee,Male Sprite Fletcher," Fox fixes feathers of free-range forest fowl to his fine, finished arrows. Fox makes both large arrows and small arrows. His work is of such quality, several of the wood elves have been known to purchase arrows from Fox. Old Fox loves to talk about his adventures in the forest and never misses a chance to tell the tale of how he came to have that broken wing (it is quite an amusing tale involving an ogre, an elf-maid, and a magic mushroom)."
Buck Boughbender,Male Sprite Bowyer," Across the way from Old Fox, you'll meet Buck the Bowyer. He makes decent bows, but he's not strong enough to string up bows for the big folk. He'll bend your ear regarding the most recent mischief happening at Madame Poppy's place in the pixie town over yonder. Buck's known to be found in his cups, tangled up with one or another of Poppy's girls. People say Madame Poppy owes him some sort of debt of gratitude, so she lets him have a ""special discount"" when he visits."
Poppy Plumdiddle,Female Pixie Madame," Blue-winged and fair-haired, Madame Poppy runs the House of Li'l Repute where all the girls are petite and dusty-eyed. All the girls are faeries of course. They can fiddle and dance and make romance though their methods are a little creative to overcome the mechanical challenges of entertaining big men. Madame Poppy puts on a polite and innocent face, but she knows exactly what she's doing. The girls still chatter and wonder about the time Madame Poppy single-handedly sent a hobgoblin captain and two of his lieutenants off into smiling just a few short minutes after they had squashed poor Glip Pinesap and were threatening to carve up the whole town."
"Roan Daar, Lord of the Sweeping Fen",Male archfey," A minor archfey, Roan Daar nevertheless possesses a full measure of the pride and fickleness inherent in the faerie folk. He takes the form of a tall, impossibly thin humanoid figure, with a reedy voice and deep-set golden eyes, often wearing long robes of woven swamp-grass and lined with cattail-fur. Those trespassing in his swampy domain are often sucked under, only to be returned to the surface unharmed years later. He counts many will-o-the-wisps as his children, and they will often surround him wherever he appears."
Ezel Broadcap,Male killoren artificer," A skilled artificer of no small renown. He can be identified by his clothing first and foremost; a wide-brimmed, pointed hat that seems to be made of frost-covered twigs and small branches, a loose-fitting tunic made from spring shoots and new growth, and trousers woven from fallen autumn leaves. He bears a simple staff, as well. Ezel is brusque and mostly concerned with his own projects, the archetypical preoccupied wizard. Most of his work, however, goes into making small objects and trinkets to make life a little easier for those who discover them. A pouch of small rocks that transmute themselves into silver pieces, which refills each dusk; a willow-twig ring that rustles like wind when danger approaches; a kettle that perfectly seasons any food placed inside."
Pox Petaldew,Male Pixie Police Commissioner," Kin to the respected Dewpetal pixie clan, Commisioner Petaldew is charged with keeping the peace in the Faerie Wood. He is short-tempered and high strung. He is possibly the only Pixie angry enough to use foul language, though who can blame him? Between the the threat of goblin loggers, lost adventurers, and feuding Faun clans, someone has got to maintain order in the Faerie Wood."
Sel'adrin Grintooth,Female Faerie Dragon Trickster," Lives in a secluded forest mostly burned down by Gnolls. She uses illusions to make the forest seem huge and alive and loves to trick passing travelers with illusionary treasure chests sunken in the lush vegetation. She stays behind until her young return, unbeknownst that they were kidnapped by the Gnolls after they destroyed the forest."
Merilin Lean,Male Faun Silklarvae-trader," Faun in fancy cloths, only small crooked horns. Hates to be called satyr and he has an addiction to poppyflowers. He is a charismatic and skillful trader."
Simyera Lac,Female nymph/mermaid gossiper," Lives in a small lake next to a forest road, beautiful and halfnaked. She will try to lure you in the deadly cursed water but she has a weakness for all kinds of smalltalk and gossip."
Amalore,Female ? Guide," A giggle on the wind and a ripple in the water, that is who she is. She likes moonlight and sweets. She is an exemplary guide when fed with sweets every day, but you can not try to find and see her, that is rude."
Mika and the Bear,Female faery kid, Mika is a small faery kid which is always found protected by her dire bear. She lost her home and is looking for an invisible silver key that will allow her to return home.
Lush,Male little satyr trickster," Lush is small, very small, even for satyr size. He is a compulsory liar and he will not even hide it. He knows a little magic, has a lot of luck and cheats at cards and stones. He spends his day following random strangers on their trips and eats their food and drink their wine in return for random falls facts about the area."
Glitterball,Female Pixie Trickster," She is all about turning people into butterflies. The first time people are aware of her is when one of their number suddenly disappears and a floating, winged flier takes their place. She is not malicious and has the personality of a very young child. If she thinks she's in trouble she'll fly away but if asked kindly, she'll turn your friend back to normal."
Flitterwing,Male Sprite Envoy," Highly serious and to the point, he is an envoy of an arch-fey and takes every excursion as of critical importance. He is quick to arm himself with his tiny bow, dripping with the most powerful sleep poison in the fey but prefers not to use it. His objectives are a secret he will keep till death and failure is never an option."
Delia Firenut,Female Sprite Singer," Delia is usually dressed in short yellow dress made up of autumn leaves, and has her naturally red hair tied in a ponytail. As most faeries, she too is curious about humans, but at the same time keeps a distance from them, secretly believing that fey are superior to the mortal races. She was singer until the moment her voice was stolen by unseelie satyr."
Sargaritis,Female Nymph Arcanist," Her hair the color of hazelnut usually sticks to her seductive face since it's always wet, just as her white dress. Being an intelligent fey, she sprinkles her speech with occasional eloquent word that would seem out of place for an unseelie nymph. She likes to tease mortal men, prefering humans and halflings and trying to drown them in her home lake as a joke. Even though its touch doesn't have any effect on her, she is disgusted by the idea of her or her home lake coming in contact with cold iron. Deep in her home lake, she hides a little cavern with several books about magic and the nature of weave she likes to read in her spare time."
Naroth,Male Centaur Warrior," Serving his seelie queen as best as he can, Naroth seems to be black mustang from the waist down, and handsome muscular elf from the waist up. Always ready to fight, he is never seen in public without his specially fitted armor and his lance made of gold and silver. He is courageous, but as it often is said - the line between courage and stupidity is often very thin. Since most children were afraid of him, he was picking up a hobby in his free time - juggling."
Alarn Petfina,Male Eladrin Crystal merchant," Alarn can usually be seen either in the market, town square or arcane district of his hometown, most often wearing one of his colorful robes. He is skilled in getting what he wants, and knows when someone tries to rob him of the business. He likes to walk barefoot everywhere, and started recently studying arcane magic, just to see what exactly do the arcanists always need so many crystals for."
Jezariah Daemaer,Female Eladrin Assassin," Jezariah, or Jeza for short, murders people who deserve it according to her morals. Professional in disguises and infiltration, she usually takes one month to get to know her target, in order to figure whether she should or shouldn't really kill it. Most people don't realize that what seems to be gray hair is really just a wig covering her short blonde hair, and that the scar on her left cheek is just as fake. In her free time, she is an actress working for local theater."
Yoinc,Male Archfey Trickster," Yoinc resembles ginger gnome dressed in green clothes, who likes to cause mischief to the mortals. He likes to welcome them, and introduce them to the ways of Feywild, saying that their welcoming tradition is opposite, and that the mortals have to give him a gift. Anything is considered a great gift by him as long as it's offered freely. However, those who take too long or outright refuse giving Yoinc a gift are misfortunate enough to be robbed by him. With his power to steal anything, he can pick anything mortal values and escape from them, be it memories, body parts, face, soul, strength... you name it, he can steal it."
Stump,Male Gnome Druid," Stump is a tiny, wizened old gnome who dresses in faded brown clothes and carries a token-bedecked staff. He's able to sit so still that he's almost impossible to see in the woodland, appearing as one of dozens of incongruous tree stumps. His patience and skill make him a favorite scout for more powerful fey."
Fuath,Male Dragonsworn King," Fuath is tall and muscular with dark, ebony skin and red-gold eyes burning with madness. Fuath is chief among the fae that pledged their allegiance to the great dragons in the Emergence War. He slew his own brother, the consort of the Unseelie Queen in battle and nearly slew the Queen as well. Corrupted by the power and greed of the dragons, Fuath has taken many of their traits on in the millennia since the war. A fiery temper rules him, as does his vanity. He is determined to bring the world under his sway."
Cellach,Male Unseelie Duke of Winter," Cellach is thin and pale with silver hair and icy blue eyes. Cold, cruel and calculating but possessed of a terrible fury when pressed too far. He is a trickster by nature, taking great joy in toying with the lesser beings, particularly elves as he holds them in low regard (being the spawn of human-faerie ""congress"")."
Croítine,Male Seelie Condemned," Being one of the chief perpetrators of the intermingling of faerie and human blood, Croítine was tried and condemned by both Queens, Tatiana and Mab. He was imprisoned in a spherical ruby, much like several other fae who were condemned. He can reach out through his spherical prison and communicate with those lesser beings who are touched by the Feywild (such as elves and people serving fae lords/ladies). He desires freedom after his two thousand year imprisonment, and is willing to do much for whoever grants it to him."
Old Madam Quincy,Female Brownie Herbalist," A little old woman with an enormous garden, which she cares for very meticulously. Sells herbal remedies and potions of unparalleled quality from her home, though prices are steep. Archenemy of rabbits and vegetable thieves everywhere, she keeps a pet blink dog as a deterrant. Also makes a mean goodberry pie. If a customer tells her a good joke, she might throw one in for free!"
Sasha Starword,Female Pixie Scholar," Much more serious than most of her pixie sisters, Sasha only leaves her miniature library to find new books and scrolls, which she copies into pixie-size versions in beautiful, illuminated manuscript. However, she's very insecure about a pink splotch on one of her wings, where she once spilled rosehip tea and just couldn't get the stain out. Often wears pink to detract attention, though few ever see her anyway."
Unambra,Female Dryad Songstress," A winter dryad with spiky pine needles along her arms and legs, Unambra hibernates for most of the year, awakening with the coming of winter. Her haunting, beautiful voice sings praise to the cold desolation of snowy nights. Unambra's lot is a lonely one, but she takes great pride in it. Is very sympathetic to respectful travelers, and locals know to leave an offering at the base of the tree in which she resides, in exchange for protection."
Averlant,Female Satyr Wandering Poet," Averlant wanders many planes, seeking to meet new folk, local or otherwise. When she comes upon beings she has not met before, she is keen to learn all about them, asking many questions. She will eventually craft a clerihew - a short, witty , biographical poem - about each person. These poems often poke fun at the person, or reveal that she knows far more about them than she has been told. Sometimes they will reveal secrets even the subject of the poem does not know. Averlant is delighted by aptonyms - people whose names are accidentally appropriate eg a Butcher named Bacon - and will bestow special gifts on people bearing one. She will often seek out such people as subjects for her poetry."
Whirliswiz Brasshopper,Male Pixie Tinker," Most pixies seem content to rely on their magic and nature and general mysticism to solve their problems. Whirliswiz has some choice words for those pixies. After a run-in with a band of dwarves, Whirli realized that pixies are the perfect size to do the kind of intricate craftsmanship and tinkering that even the elves struggle with. He set to work right away on designing and creating tiny knobs and gears, most of which don't actually have uses yet, that he knew only he could create."
Cazria Glimmerleaf,Female Nymph Fighter," If the tales around the tavern hearth are to be believed, nymphs come in two varieties: demure nature guardians who care for every tree and bunny or alluring spirits of animalistic hunger and lust. Cazria particularly enjoys mutilating the people who think she's the latter. Rather than share the blessings of nature or any of that hooey, Cazria believes that nature is a thing that must be protected from all those who would defile it. Unfortunately for anyone who happens upon her, Cazria's idea of ""defiling"" includes anything that walks on two legs beside herself setting foot in her forest."
They Provide the Paint for the Picture Perfect Masterpiece Which You Paint on the Inside of Your Eyelids AKA 'Paint',Male ? Revolutionary," Paint is a fae who has taken a strong interest in people. Specifically the downtrodden and the meek. He visits them in the form of a traveling teacher, and after learning of their problems gives them what they wish for to change their position in life. Be it wealth or strength or magic. He then leaves them to decide how best to use their gift, but returns after an indeterminate period of time, and judges their actions. If he believes they have truly become what they desired to be he leaves them as they are, but if they have not achieved their wishes he strikes them down."
Möberon,Male Eladrin Mathematician," A slim and elegant individual with silver hair and wiry glasses, Möberon is often found hunched over his desk, deep in study and research. His adopted son, whom he fought tooth and nail to keep custody of after the divorce, is often playing with other Eladrin children on his front lawn. Möberon has many connections in his field, and is somewhat of a nexus of communication and collaboration among the mathematically minded. His colleagues often refer to him as ""The King of Numbers"". He loves to discuss his research and teach others the wonders of mathematics. Other topics tend to be of less interest to him, unless they pertain to someone he knows well."
"NEIFON THE KNOWLEDGEABLE, of the Court of Stars",Male Archfey Librarian," Neifon is a large rotund owlish fey being who protects the incarnation of the Tree of Knowledge in the Feywild, which acts something like a giant library. He is extremely loud, rambunctious and enthusiastic, and happy to lend out books and scripts to worthy seekers, as long as they promise to bring them. Those who don't return them usually get chased down by owlbears or mortal agents in the Material plane."
Beedle Finfeather,Male Sprite Prankster," Beedle is a small fey, barely 6 inches tall who has something of a lust for gold following adventures in the material plane. He has pale skin with dark hair, black feathery wings, a light needle of bone for a weapon, and a sack he often tries to fill with the coin of any traveller he believes he can pickpocket."
Evelorn the Alpha-Birch,Female Dryad Bully," Beautiful and haughty, Evelorn is a rather sociable pale skinned red haired dryad within a large forest of birch trees, who through gossip and blackmail, has come to manipulate and call favours from most of the other minor fey and woodland beings. She uses this power largely to bully and humiliate travellers in her forest, turning them around, pulling them back, and simply trying to prove the forests dominance over them as she fancies herself a minor ruler. In truth she is far too weak and cowardly to accomplish much, but her trove of secrets and connections woven over the centuries has value that reaches beyond her glades."
Huntmaster Earl,Male Archfey," Forgoing the gaudy trappings of his peers, Huntmaster Earl wears simple arms and armor that slightly accentuate his considerable power. Riding at the head of the Wild Hunt, The Huntmaster takes delight in every second of his dangerous pursuits, for his existence derives off living along the edge where bravery meets recklessness. Sources cannot agree on his motives or his actions. His goals are his own, but if one were to bargain with the Archfey they best appeal to his competitive and eager nature. By no means does that mean he is easy to fool, as he has the instinct of an apex predator."
Flaherty,Male Dryad Minor Noble," A minor noble in the Seelie Court and the brother of Jirvel. He leads a live of luxury in the giant oak in the middle of the glade he calls his domain. This glade is about one acre in size and can only be reached during the twilight hours before dusk and left during the twilight hours after dawn. If somebody gets trapped in the glade by not leaving before sunrise, he offers to let them stay the day in his oak, in exchange for a small favour in the future. If the person agrees this is a binding magical contract that can only be lifted by both parties agreeing to lift it. Other fey generally recognise his claim on the glade and the minor fey living in it adress him as Lord of the Glade and pay tribute to him in the form of minor gifts, which allows him to live his livestlye. In return he takes his promise to protect the glade and all that live in it very seriously. The only thing that means more to Flaherty then the glade and it's inhabitants is his younger sister Jirvel. She is his shining star, his rising sun, his scarlet poppy, something he is very eager to everybody that would listen. He has in fact been spending the last few years looking for a fitting husband, but in his eyes nobody is good enough for his darling sister. You can imagine his suprise when his sister returned from one of her trips in the company of a 1000 years old oak that one of her druid friends had cast awaken on and declared him her fiance. Flaherty, at first reluctant, has by now warmed up to the idea and has been busy with the preparations for the wedding. He has spared no expenses and even called in a lot of favours for this occasion, nothing is too good his sisters wedding. Because of this the wedding will be the most lavish and extravagant thing the forrest has ever seen (flowers from all over the world both as decoration and food for the smaller fey, will-o-wisps captured and stuffed into lantern that float through the air, a satyr band, a fountain of the best wine), and there will be a lot of different guests that traveled from long and far to attend the wedding. (Not only fey, but hags, human nobles, gnomish sages, sentient animals, even some elementals and minor celestials, but anybody is welcome really) If the players arive at the glave it is actually the night of the wedding and they can see the lights and hear the music from anywhere on the glade. Secrets: The giant oak he lives in is actually his bound tree and not only that but it is actually a treant that he merged with centuries ago. They share one mind and if somebody or something threatens the glade the two will merge and the oak will rise and defend it. While merged the two count as one creature, use the Treant statblock, but with a dryads metal stats, skills, innate spellcasting and magic resistance. During the wedding of his sister Flaherty is actually unable to decline any one favour asked of him by one of the guests, provided they brought a present for the bride. This fact is not a secret, but Flaherty doesn't share it willingly with anybody uninitiated. The players might learn of this from one of the other guests, including Jirvel. There is a bit more to his love for his sister then he would ever be willing to puplicly admit. He knows that this is wrong and it gnaws on his mind. He is hoping that once his sister is married he will be able to forget about these feeling, an empty hope."
Jirvel,Female Dryad Minor Noble," The Bride. Sister of Flaherty. While technically a noble of the Seelie Court, she is not yet seen as a proper member since she hasn't bounded yet. This fact means that she is still mortal, still ages, still bleeds, something she wants to change as soon as possible. She knew that her brother could never decide on a husband for her, so she decided to take things into her own hands. She has been using her influence over the forrests animals to search for a fitting husband. While she doesn't have a strong realm like her brother has the fact that she is not yet bonded means she is free to go whereever she pleases and as a result of that her net of favours, while not as strong actually extends even far outside the boundary of their native forrest. Her favorite tools are the birds, because they are the most free of creatures. This is how she learned about an ancient oak, many days travel outside her brothers sphere of influence. An oak so old that nobody she questioned could actually tell her how long it had been around. So she went to Freija, a young female human druid from the nearby village. And they went to seek out this oak and when they found it Freija awakened the old tree. After Freija cast her spell, the tree slowly started to stir and rise, look around, then take notice of the tiny creatures in front of him that had just given him sentience. When asked what his name was, he pondered for what Jirvel experienced to be an excrutiatingly annoying amount of time until finally telling them his name: Greagoir It took forever to get the slow giant back to the glade, especially since the daft fool would allways stop and look onto the most mundane things with amazement. When they finally arived at the glade she imediatly told her brother that she planned to marry the tree. He was at first against it, like she knew he would be, but she also knew that in the end he wouldn't deny her any request. Especially since he knows just how valuable a catch her husband was. And now only the wedding itself stands between her and finally bonding with her husband and becomming a fully fledged and very powerfull dryad. Secrets: Look at Freija's NPC block to find out the story of the two. Jirvel is actually very aware of the true nature of her brothers feeling for her. She doesn't feel the same in any way, she in fact despises him, for beeing so much older and more influential. In her mind, she should have been the one born first and the glade should have been hers. But she knows how to hide her feelings and knows how to use Flaherty's feeling to her advantage. Right now her brother is the most powerfull ally she has, but this might change soon. Her true ambitions are to be much more powerfull then her brother, to become to him as overpowering a presence as he had been to her all these years. She aims to shed the shackles of beeing only a ""minor"" noble, she would become a proper one, somebody that at the mere metion of her name would make all the other fey tremble both in awe and fear at the same time. Her brother might be content with beeing the Lord of the Glade, but she would be the Lady of the whole forrest. The Lady of the Woods, only that would be a proper titel for her. And this marriage is the next big step in achieving this goal."
Freija,Female Human Druid," (I originally had this as part of Jirvel, but it really disrupted the flow of the narative, so I put it here because it is still important for the personality of Jirvel) If you asked Freija what the relationship between the two of them was, she would tell you that Jirvel was something like her fairy godmotherto her. If you asked Jirvel, she would tell you that she owns the girl. A few years back, when Freija was still a young girl learning the druidic ways from their village elder, she fell in love with a local boy called Myca. But Myca was older, his father was the local butcher, so he was quite well of. No way he would fall for the weird local tree girl. But then like in the fairy tails, a beautiful woman apeared to her in the woods and offered her. She knew so much, about how she was in love, how she could get closer to Myca, what to talk with him about to get him to like her. And with her help she managed to win the love of her live. She is now married to Myca, she is the local druid after the elder died and he is a hunter. They have a little daughter aged 3 and a little boy aged 1. She is very gratefull to her fairy godmother and would do anything for her. Jirvel first learned of the girl from one of her spies, the foolish child had actually been talking to the birds about her feelings. She had first gone to her village on a whim, feeling bored she had toyed with the idea of breaking the girls dreams, maybe take the boy away if he was really as handsome as the girl was saying. But when she laid eyes upon the girl she imediatley felt the potential she had to become a powerfull druid, and she had actually allready even found a mentor to guide her. So she made a plan, to take control over this girl, to aquire her while she was still young and dumb and easy to influence. First she charmed the boy, he wasn't really good looking, more like handsome but in a very common way. And once she had the boy devoted to her (an easy task, he was a teenage boy after all), she told him that if wanted to continue their relationship he would have to court this girl for her. She then went to the girl, told her what to do, what to say. In truth nothing the girl could have said, would have stopped the boy, she could have been a pig and he still would have done as Jirvel told him. And so the years passed and the girls power grew, when the girls mentor started to slow down her growth she got rid of him, and the girl grew to be much more powerfull then he had ever been. The boy grew too, when he was told to marry her he did so, when he was told to give her a child he did so, and every time he went out to hunt he would come to seek her out. She had no real desire to be with the boy, but she enjoyed the thought of his wife at home, with her children waiting for her beloved husband to return, while we lay with her amoung the leaves. The girls whole life, dancing as a pawn in the palm of her hand. And now that the girl had fullfilled her purpose she was still a powerfull pawn, but a disposable one. Jirvel very much looks forward to one day telling the girl everything and seeing her whole world crumble."
"Who are these crones, enchantresses, and fortune tellers?","The witch smiles gleefully as she squishes the caterpillar between her fingers. ""Into the pot!"" she smiles as she tosses it into the bubbling, hissing liquid."""," Witches, seers, fortune tellers, and diviners are staples of fantasy worlds. Individuals who have glimpsed dark secrets or who can peer into the future. Sometimes these are villains, but most often they are following some agenda of their own that is unwholesome if not wholly evil. The NPCs don't have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could quickly fill in what's missing. I'll post a few examples. (These may or may not have drawn some inspiration from these tables and these tables.)"
Myrta,Female Human Crone," Myrta learned her craft from a half-elf witch who came to her aid after she was evicted following the death of her fourth husband. This cackling old crone saved Myrta and her young daughter from a beggarly life, teaching them spells that gave them the power to manipulate men's minds and the forces of nature. Since being chased from town after a few short years of scrounging in the allies, Myrta's made a cozy little lair for herself and her grumpy familiar Ormund the Owl in a cave in the swamp. She's a tough old bird, and she'll happily mix up a poison or curse an item for you in exchange for a few silvers. Her mistress told her about the staff of Hecate, the first witch, and Myrta's been gingerly probing for lore relating to the staff ever since. She's currently mixing up a terrible poison made from blindworm's sting, dryad's thorn, and stirge's foot. Who the poison is intended for is anyone's guess..."
Marta,Female Human Enchantress," Marta is the witch Myrta's beautiful daughter by her second husband, and she learned the craft as a teenager on the streets from her mother. Marta left her mother's tutelage to marry some handsome lord, but he died under mysterious circumstances. When suspicion turned on Marta she fled to the mountains where she lives, conducting seances, reading the palms of travelers, and seeking the soul of her dead husband. Her familiar is a talkative snake named Hiss-Fiss, and her other companion in the mountains is a giant bat named Hipp-Fipp, whom she rides to and from the valley to her hidden lair. Marta has a nervous twittering laughter that shakes her pleasant features in an unpleasant way. She also has a real talent for love potions. Most men who drink these potions fall in love with Marta herself, but that works for her. She enjoys taking new lovers. She also enjoys casting old lovers from her mountaintop home when she's done with them."
Morta,Female Half-Elf Bogwitch," Morta is the most mysterious member of the coven. She's half-elven with a very unfortunate wart on her nose. She's quite good at preparing alchemical concoctions, from magical cure-alls to pyrophoric substances. She lives on an island in the swamp and transforms into an owl to get from place-to-place. If you let on that you know magic, she'll pick your brain for ritual lore before letting you go. Once she let's you go, there's a good chance she's going to hunt you down with her bow and her spear. If you get far enough away, she'll transform into a horned owl and track you down. She consorts with a gleeful fire elemental familiar who delights in burning things and whom Morta is constantly trying to restrain as she prefers to kill things herself. Morta delights in the thrill of the chase and the adrenaline rush of making the kill to end a successful hunt."
Laki,Female Human Shadowseer," Old Laki is a bent-backed creature of routine who knows the most unexpected things. Every morning, she rises to a cup of tea and dried fish before her morning walk amongst the beaches and meadows of the rugged coastland. Hobbling along with her crooked cane, she collects bits of driftwood, grasses, herbs, and shells for her fires. She sleeps the afternoon away under the watchful gaze of her raven, and receives guests in evening. All through the night, she prays to her dragon gods and works her spells, divining answers to her guests' questions by interpreting the shadows the flames cast on her tent walls."
Margy the White,Female Human Fortune Teller," Robed in black with dark brown hair and tan skin, one may ask why is she called Margy the White? This sturdy middle-aged woman offers readings in her kitchen, during which her voice deepens and her face takes on a ghostly pallor. The local priest has been ranting about Margy being a fraud for decades, but that never seemed to bother Margy. She keeps offering to do a reading for a silver to any who ask and who have good manners."
Glyddon Silverstrings,Male Half-Elf Singer," Glyddon Silverstrings has a handsome face and a golden voice and a pitch-perfect harp. He has recently been wandering the villages of the Borderlands singing for his supper and offering simple healing as his meager skills allow. Once in a while, he has had dreams that offer him glimpses of the future, including foreseeing his own mother's death while a youth in Brightharbor. After she died, he has been an unsettled rascal, never staying in one town for long. Some say he is wanted for the murder of a Southron merchant prince whom he tried to warn about his enemies' plans."
Deepbrother Harridan,Male Human Prophet," A gaunt priest of the Sea Queen, Deepbrother Harridan preaches her dire message of darkness and suffocation for those who do not submit to her will. Harridan himself was the sole survivor of a terrible shipwreck as a young lad. So moved by his luck, he pledged himself as a deepbrother of the Sea Queen, claiming to have received visions of her plans when his lungs were filled with seawater. He has ""drowned"" himself dozens of times since, taking on seawater and asking that his assistants revive him. Recently, he has predicted a black vengeance will rise from the sea to consume those in the city who refuse to renounce their devotion to the Light."
Borovurnum Jurtha,Female Human Sailor," On the languorous and rain-soaked coastlines there is a rowboat tied to a rotting pier somewhere. On this rowboat is Borovurnum, never tired, never hungry, with fire behind her huge pupils and teeth and deep blue tattoos of wide-eyed snakes up and down her muscled arms. She will row you to the nearest fishing hamlet, clam shack, or charcoal-burner's hut for only some conversation in exchange; and during the journey she will offer you to smoke from her pipe. If you interest her sufficiently with information—and, more importantly, manage to draw a mouthful of smoke from the pipe—then she will regard you highly and pleasantly, offering to row you anywhere you wish or could possibly imagine. However you will smell of, and constantly spit up, liquid smoke and heatless fire for a few days afterwards. Further, you will always hear the slight splashing of oars on water from inside your head, your appetite will be subdued and then all at once entirely gone, your eyes will feel hot and swollen."
Malfra,Female Human Enchantress," Ever since Malfra was born, she felt different from the others living in the small hamlet. Her natural magical talents made her feel like an outcast. As a young woman she met her one true love. He was a soulmate: finally someone with whom she could share her gift of magic. One day, he gave her the most beautiful flower she had ever seen as a token of their love. When their relationship ended on his behalf, Malfra turned bitter. She grew envious of other young maidens who were happy with their lovers. Fleeing from her home and retreating into the neighboring woods, she set out to destroy their happiness. When young couples wander too close to her confines, she enchants the young maiden in love and turns her into a bird, to be locked into a cage at her hovel. Only the flower that reminds her of her long lost love will break the spell."
Norgith the phasing,Male githzerai wanderer," Norgith is a tall, gaunt, hooded figure, always wandering through dark woods or climbing distant mountains, though sometimes he is seen passing through alleyways in bustling cities. Little is known about him, but whenever he is encountered, he is amicable, though impatient. He seems to know everything, and has an answer to every question, but he always speaks enigmatically, and also always claims only to have a few moments to talk. When people try to find him again, even moments later he is gone. No one ever sees him coming, and no one sees him leave. It is said that he phases across time and space, observing the world, but not staying in any one place for long, which is how he gained his knowledge."
Giddy Cremm,Female Half-Orc Suntouched Cragwitch," She clings to the boulders and cliffs of her mountain home with hooks made from steel, woven through her fingers and along her arms with lengths of braided leather, hemp and hair. She wears the sun as a cloak, the wind as a bonnett, the sky as a dress. Her laughs (and her deep, unsettling coughs) echo for improbable distances, and it's always wise to make camp when you hear them, and soon; should there be a pot of something tasty awaiting her when she comes calling, she might be willing to overlook a trespasser on her land."
Marin of the Lupines,Female Human Oracle," She lives in a sturdy cabin, tucked between two boulders on the edge of the wood, where the tall trees give way to to undergrowth and wildflowers. During the long springs and summers and autumns, she can be found wandering the the threshold - the divide, she calls it - harvesting the few Lupines that stray under the shade of the foliage. These, she says, grow with the shadow in them. She boils them in springwater and honeycomb, and as she whispers her hidden words, the bees from the meadow crawl through her knotted hair and across the glassy mirrors of her sightless eyes. Those who watch find it unnerving, but the wise know that the bees keep secrets."
Twisted Tether,Awakened," She loves questions. Her only request for repayment is 'to discover something that she has not before'. This can be a song, a riddle or simply showing her things she has not seen - be that with books, paintings, casting illusions or virtually anything else. The more impressed she is with this information or story the more forthcoming she is with answers to any questions. As she is well past three thousand years old so finding something 'new' can be very challenging - though it is suspected she 'pretends' to be surprised &/or delighted to nearly any good company. She loves to share her ideas with those she enjoys and it helps her to pass the nearly endless time that waits before her."
Throne of The Harvürdium Kingdoms,at all costs," To this day this wonderful throne sits alone within a mighty (albeit crumbling) castle, long abandoned in the middle of a ruined empire. To any who seek its hard knowledge, bitter wisdom and face-peeling sarcasm, the way is easily discovered."
Gaglagabablagubb,clear thinking," Seekers that go to this talkative blob of mouths & eyes can get vast, complex and insanity-inducing answers to so nearly any question. Though admittedly, one has to not only keep their sanity but also avoid being eaten throughout the conversation - some habits are hard to break. Clever people bring along at least enough snacks to pre-occupy this creature until any would-be questioning is done."
Ventelusall,Reincarnated, Centuries ago legend speaks of a great bard asking a powerful green dragon: 'what is treasure?' Much to her surprise she could not answer as she really did not know. Why was something valuable? What had true enduring value? How could one attain the most or all of these Eternal Goods... whatever they were? She became rather flummoxed for at least a few centuries.
Garian,Male Elven Researcher," Seers: Othelius is a half-lich. He and his partner Garian were the victims of an unfortunate experiment in ascending to lichdom via an artificial, true-neutral-aligned phylacterial ritual. Othelius is now effectively immortal, but must be constantly moisturized by an external source. He normally resembles a healthy, if elderly, elven man, but shrivels and mummifies within a few hours if not properly hydrated. Othelius can passively anticipate many possible futures, and can give general predictions as to the way things will be in the next several weeks or months. He doesn't do long-term prophesying. Garian is a half-lich. He and his partner Othelius were the victims of an unfortunate experiment in ascending to lichdom via an artificial, true-neutral-aligned phylacterial ritual. Garian, too, is effectively immortal, but must remain in an unnaturally dry environment or his body will rapidly putrefy and decay. His prophecies are of the more traditional kind - from time to time, he'll be inspired to write poems or songs that cryptically foreshadow events several years or decades in the future."
Roland Roggeveen,Male Elf Farmer," A tall golden-eyed elf with hair the color of grain. He often wears a tan tunic, and grey overalls. He has a small farm of his own, and lives there alone. In the small windmill on his farm he practices his magic, and makes many things for his plants, magical fertilizers to cause plants to grow in wonderful and strange ways, mulches that push out weeds, and protect the soil, and sprays to dissuade the presence of vermin, and insects in his crops. He will sell these to anyone who can show a good interest in plants."
Clara Sheehy,Female Half-Elf Phytomancer," A soft spoken and kind woman. Her hair is bright white with tinges of red, and green. She mostly keeps to herself, preferring the company of the magical plants that she creates. Her home is a small cottage with sunflowers and rosebushes growing around its edges, and many raised gardens scattered around it. She can be quite shy around new people to the point of misdirecting them away from her cottage with elaborate illusions. When she is outside her house she usually wears a large straw sun hat with a white ribbon on its top."
Hubert Donnelly,Male Leprechaun Shopkeeper," A brown eyed leprechaun who wears a green tunic, and brown overalls. He manages his own shop, and sells various magical trinkets as well as gardening supplies. A few of his own gardening tools are quite magical. He acts kind to those that enter his shop casually, but when someone that has a great need for something enters his shop he will do whatever he can to trade them what they want at the cost of something they have great sentimental value in. He can be very mischievous, and even taunting to those that have traded something to him that the once greatly adored, and will not easily trade it back to them."
Gerhard Katirci,Male Ogre Geomancer," A large ogre with dark grey skin, and piercing green eyes and a set of spectacles. He speaks very intelligently, but has issues with using profanity often. He wears a dense, grey, woolen shirt, and tan overalls. He works in mines to prevent their collapse, and to locate the ore or gemstones in them. Often he uses his own strength to amend issues in the construction of a mine. He respects the earth and stone of the mines he works in, and can speak to it in a way to find the best way to reinforce it."
Haukvir,Male Dwarven Watcher," A quiet dwarf who lives in the ruins of a long-forgotten temple. His beard is glossy and black, as are his eyes. When he speaks, he speaks with many voices, in many accents, and none of them are Dwarvish."
"Bartholomew the Great and Powerful, First of His Name, Whose Arts Rattle the Vaults of Heaven",Male Half-elf Charlatan," Bartholomew (or, to his friends and/or paramours, Tol) is a lanky, somewhat frazzled half-elf with a shock of red hair. 'Shock' is an appropriate word; this stage magician uses what small sorcerous talents he has to swindle away the money of every backwoods family and small-town bumpkin from here to the Whitespire Mountains. Make no mistake, though: he might be terrible at performing magic, but he is a prodigy at summoning the eldritch horrors and assorted unsavory creatures that slaughter any who would turn him in to the authorities."
"Who are these demonologists, shadowhunters, crusaders, and exorcists?","The old priest winks, drains his cup of wine, and spryly hops off his bar stool. ""Come on,"" he smiles, ""if we go now, I can get you in and out of the temple's crypt before the midnight devotions begin."""," Last week, we made some fiendish villains, so it seems fitting that we collect some NPCs who oppose such beings. These NPCs could run the gamut from eager allies to dangerous foils, but they should not be sinister on all accounts (to distinguish them from villains). The NPCs don't have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could quickly fill in what's missing. I'll post a few examples."
Brother Calymus,Male Human Scholar," A priest of the First Order of the Light, Brother Calymus is a spry, balding old man who's been wandering the world for half a century, seeking out ghosts, survivor's of near-death experiences, and other strange phenomenon attributed to the Spirit Realm. He's written two popular books on the topic and is happy to talk at length about the mysteries of death, especially over a cup of strong red wine. Whenever you run into Brother Calymus in a tavern or brothel, he's bound to know where some dark presence is lurking nearby in the world (and likely, he's eager to investigate once he finds the right help)."
Sir Harrisen Figg,Male Human Knight," Tall and handsome with long dark hair and neatly-trimmed mustaches, Sir Harrisen was the heir of House Figg, but after the strange circumstances of the death of his sister, he renounced his inheritance and left his family to join the Watcher's Swords, pledging his life to hunting down enemies of the Moon Maiden's church. Figg has been particularly prolific in seeking out and destroying demons who reveal themselves in the world. He carries an ancestral sword that had been called Greatknife which he has renamed Fiendbane. When you meet him, you'll find he's a bit stiff, but he means well."
Sister Dierdre,Female Human Priestess," Sister Dierdre's wide green eyes smile, despite a sadness lingering about her young face. She often fiddles with her long blonde braid when she speaks, especially if asked about her past. Dierdre was the promiscuous daughter of a high-ranking soldier, who couldn't seem to keep herself out of trouble, so her father sent her away to join the Second Order of the Light. She always approached ghosts and demons with fascination and, of late, has discovered her own talent as a medium between the world and the Spirit Realm."
Lady Joenna Longfisk,Female Human Knight," Clad in mail and leather, Lady Joenna Longfisk is a tall maid with short-cropped auburn hair. She took up the sword against her father's wishes, following her young liege lord to battle in his fateful campaign against the Ice Clans. The campaign was largely successful, save the death of her liege lord. Too proud to return home, Lady Joenna pledged her sword in the service of the Storm King's Temple of Winter. Never at home among the men of the temple guard, a powerful priestess who had befriended her sent Lady Joenna back among the lands of the Ice Clans to search for an ancient shrine to the Storm King that's been lost for centuries."
Goodson Harbert,Male Human Exorcist," With a missing eye and a wooden leg, Goodson Harbert cuts an intimidating figure, especially for a priest. He reeks of booze and speaks in a growl, but he's a warm soul beneath the gruff exterior. People say Harbert has been to the Hells and back, and no one who sees him would dare question that rumor. He's never risen high among the Goodsons of the Traveler, but he is respected by all within the church's hierarchy. If you have to face a demon, a ghost, or a questionably-sourced cask of ale, you'll want Harbert's hatchet and his box of potions and powders at your side."
Bifgard Stonehouse,Male Dwarf Crusader," His flame-orange beard a shaggy tangle, Bifgard Stonehouse is quick to draw his axe at the first whiff of goblins, ghosts, and wights. For years, he has been working in stages to clear the ancient dwarf-hold of Silverden of goblins and undead almost single-handedly. He comes down from the mountains twice a year to re-supply his camp and make half-hearted attempts at recruiting some help in his task. Bifgard speaks very little until he's had a few ales, and then he speaks too much–becoming angry with himself (and anyone around him) whenever he lets slip one of Silverden's secrets, setting himself to perform an awful penance to atone to the Great Smith."
Quelma Starcircle,Female High Elf Shadowhunter," Quelma Starcircle remained in the World when the last of her people left centuries past, her task still unfinished. Her brilliant blue eyes are patient and her manner is as soft and straight as her flowing silver-blonde hair. With her sword and her bow, Quelma has dogged the arch-lich Arameedi from one end of the World to the other. She has slain it six times, and six times the lich has risen. Quelma will continue her dangerous game of cat-and-mouse with Arameedi until she finds the hiding place of its phylactery or until it destroys her."
Goran the Grim,Male Human Preacher," A devotee of the Southron pantheon, Goran spends his days preaching the word of the God of Death in the market square (""Prepare! Seek Death on your own terms, lest Trickery guide your path or Ruin take your strength!""). Black-robed, gaunt, and pale with dark circles around his dark eyes, Goran's deep voice booms across the square beseeching all who will listen to make time for meditation on Death every day. Goran also sells a variety of amulets and potions that will ward off the curse of undeath, so that Death may be met peacefully and honorably."
Al-bah Zorimun,Male Human Paladin," Al-bah Zorimun is a broad-shouldered knight who wears light copper scale armor and always carries a wicked scimitar on his left hip and several short spears slung across his back. Zorimun's head is shaved and his mustache is long and waxed, though he often keeps both hidden from the sun with a white cotton cowl has he wanders the desert on his trusted mare. Every sun up and sun down, Zorimun prays to the Sun God asking the First Light and the Last Light to touch his flashing blade that he might strike down the dark followers of the Dead God. Zorimun is quietly going about his bloody work, seeking out the tent-camps and caves where the followers of the Dead God hide."
Inquisitor Marsolis,Female Tiefling Priestess," She tells her guests her name before they see her - Francesca. She lures them into confidence with a voice full of contrite abasement, sexual undertones, knowing humor. She laughs, she cries, she tells them she'll be flogged if she doesn't get the answers she needs. Whatever works. When she can, she walks behind them unseen, the soles of her boots whispering on the flagstones of her clean, spare chambers. Just as with any other tool, she uses violence sparingly and judicially... but first, if nothing else works, she steps from the shadows and pulls the hood from her head. When they see her crimson skin, they begin to scream; when they see the jet black ram's horns that curl from the back of her head and over her shoulders, they begin to confess."
Sir Nicolas of Eastmark,Male Human Sorcerer," Sir Nicolas is a peculiar sort of knight; he doesn't joust, or compete at the sword, or do any number of things that your average everyday knight would do. Instead, he wears finely tailored clothes, tasteful yet expensive jewelry, and personally oversees all of the kingdom's dealings with adventurers and would-be heroes. Having retired from adventuring himself at the ripe old age of 45, his dark hair (with gray wingtips, lovingly maintained) and trained grey eyes are a fixture around the palace. He prefers to do things the easy way, rather than the way that involves copious amounts of explosions, but make no mistake: he isn't called the Mage Knight of Eastmark for no reason."
Dame Elmeara Dragonback,Female Dwarf Paladin," The first impression most people get of Elmeara is her armor: a set of brilliant white enameled plate, which under sunlight shimmers with a faint opalescence. Most trained warriors, sellswords, and hungry bandits scoff at such extravagance; after all, how experienced can one be without any battle damage on one's armor? Unfortunately for them, they are asking the wrong question. The right question: How good does Dame Elmeara have to be to come out of every fight with immaculate armor? The right answer: Very, very good."
"Alexei van Valerya, the White Hat",Male Tiefling Assassin/Guard Captain," Assassination is an art, and a difficult one at that. For every noble who travels in an open carriage through a city filled with tall buildings, there are five more who don't eat their breakfast until their entire court has a bite first. And yet, a select few kingslayers still manage to turn a profit. Alexei van Valerya knows the art of killing important people better than any other bodyguard, mostly because up until a few years ago, he was on the side of the artists. The ex-assassin-turned-security-chief cuts an unassuming figure; at 5'10 he's not the tallest, and at 160 pounds he's not the bulkiest. What he is, is effective. From his swept-back black horns to his toes, Alexei is all business. Tales around the palace say that he personally kills at least one foreign spy before breakfast, and two before lunch. He fights with his bare hands, or with garrote wire, or with long, ten-inch dirks that he wears on his back, and when he does, he is completely silent."
Sygfellow Ottman,Male Dwarf Stonewarden," Sygfellow comes from a long line of stonewardens whose job it is to walk the long paths between the eastern brunmallow and northern grasslands where brigands often lurk seeking easy prey, or roaming barbarians encroach. Because of the fact that he's constantly on the move going to town to hamlet, he has an intimate knowledge of the inhabitants of each and is often sought out for news and tales and, when the wine is particularly fine, a song. Syg is the fifth generation of his family yo take on the stonewarden mantle. Syg stands four feet, nine inches tall and has long brown hair and amber eyes. Syg is so used to traveling the long trade roads that he travels quite light and can live fairly easily off of what the land provides. He knows every nook on the forest's edge where he can find safe respite and where to find the best fish and game. He's seen these roads to often and knows the paths so well, that he can smell when something is amiss. You'll know him by his rough green cloak and his compact yew bow that carries with him, and if he asks you your business, you'd do well to answer wisely. Sygfellow does not suffer fools kindly."
"Sir Aaron Irkell, the Beacon's Light",Male Human Paladin/Cleric of Torm," Sir Aaron stands at an average height of just 5'9"". His blonde hair is incredibly short, and he wears long purple robes under a breastplate emblazoned with the seal of Torm. You can find him, more often than not, tending to the wounded Lord's Alliance soldiers in the med tents of Qui. His words are brief and to the point, but he is kind and well-mannered. He heads a church of Torm in the city of Qui called ""The Beacon"" where he teaches mercy, healing and kindness. Those who meet Sir Aaron on the street or in his church will often find him lost in thought, dwelling on those he could not save and praying for those he is still trying to save."
Brother Kiniffer,Male Human Crusader," A paladin of torm and war veteran, he wears a leather armored kilt and a light leather tunic at all times. He has seen more wars and single combat encounters in his life than most can honestly speak of, and its left him a bit crazed or blood lusted, its hard to tell. His eyes are wide, and his head's got patches of hair all about it in between the patches that have either fallen out or been ripped out. He is nearly maniacal in his desire to drive evil from the land and he's happy to engage in long conversations with those who would help him do it. You can find him training with the other brothers of the First Light Monastery, east of the High Forest."
Talal,Male Half-Elf Mystic / con-artist (neutral selfish)," Moral ambiguity personified with sandy blonde hair and a charming smile; a wink of his green eyes invites you into his secret. Most faiths have a secret cabal wherein special rites, prayers, and practices are rarely disclosed to the layman. However as a man of half truths and half lies, Talal can fit in to any one of these. Talal's specialty is knowing where these rituals take place and either owns or at least knows the location of cabalistic items of power.  "
Keandra,Female Tiefling Warlock / demon hunter," Not everyone believes that hunting demons is a fulfilling career path. Thus was the belief of the arch devil Ezatan, who therefore sub-contracted his end of a deal to a young and desperate tiefling girl. Now that she is older, Keandra hunts demons with efficiency and indifference. Having no personal vendetta against the abyssal spawns, she finds no joy ridding the world of their evil. To her, it's just a job."
Balchenod the White,Male Tiefling Investigator," The body was finally still beneath him, but he could feel the blood soaking into his pants. Still, he held the knife, hilt against the body's back, a few more seconds until he was sure it was only his own breath rasping in the dark cellar. ""Balch, you're getting sloppy,"" he muttered to himself as he willed his left hand to release the quarry's horn and slowly withdraw the ten inch dirk. The darkened skin of the tiefling on the floor seemed to go ashy in the inky black pool of its own blood. He'd earned this bounty, but at what cost? Licking his lips unconsciously, he knew the self-flagellation tonight would be particularly intense."
Krind Steeltoe,Male Dwarf Ranger," A long braided brown beard and piercing blue eyes are the first thing you'll notice when see this dwarven ranger. He initially has a gruff demeanor, but becomes friendly enough once you known him for a while. A follower of Marthammor Duin, he aims to explore new lands and protect his fellow travelers and any people who he might meet on the road. Accustomed to hilly terrain and mountains, his recent travels though an unholy mountain pass have led him into combat with wicked undead far too often for his tastes, and he would welcome any help in exterminating this threat to the locals and travellers."
Skrazano,Male Kobold Soldier," This loyal soldier is no ordinary kobold. Although he is at present nothing more than a soldier, he has been handpicked for the elite guard due to his skill and bravery in combat. Through his veins runs a sliver of metallic dragon blood, granting him power beyond that of an ordinary kobold. He is dedicated to his duty and speaks very little. And when he does speak, he speaks softly, barely more than a whisper."
Aurak Gnar,Male Dragonborn Paladin," Aurak Gnar is a 6'8"" golden metallic dragonborn. Wearing shining plate armor, wielding his silver sword and garrisoning his shield. Aurak is stern and outgoing, taking command where possible. He prefers to lead from the front and take a cautious approach to most things. Having survived numerous battles where patience, not the might of a sword arm, was the deciding factor. He is merciful to most beings, believing that everybody has the chance to turn to the light. However he acts without mercy or quarter to beings of evil and those who help them."
Sivak Nala,Female Dragonborn Priestess of Bahamut," Sivak Nala is a fierce silver dragonborn with a height around 6'3"". She wears simple armored robes and wields two short swords. Despite her cold outwards appearance, she is deeply caring for those in need and those who cannot defend themselves from the horrors of the dark. Her shy calm and graceful demeanor do not carry over to those of foul natures, even if they aren't innately evil beings. Driven and focused to the task at hand, Sivak Nala hunts down the dark forces of the world with equal measures of grace and cold malice."
Bozak Rhogar,Male Dragonborn Knight," Bozak Rhogar is large, even for a dragonborn. Standing at a towering 6'11"", and seemingly built out of a bronze wall, Bozak Rhogar is a force to be reckoned with. Known as a dispassionate fellow, Bozak holds no quarter to any who hold themselves outside of the law, or worse, the paths of darkness. Beneath his bronzed exterior lays a heart of, more bronze. Bozak is quiet and pensive, often going hours or even days without speaking. Preferring to instead answer with a nod, grunt, or silver maul."
FlyHandle,Male Aarakocra Mercenary," A member of a radical mercenary guild, FlyHandle speaks very little, takes orders, and has little qualms as long as there is pay. He builds trust with long term contractors, and will slowly open up about his opinions and knowledge. He wears light armor, can class as a barbarian, and prefers spear-like weapons."
Cadrielda Sabreen,Female Human Shopkeeper," The owner of Cadey's Trinkets, an arcane pawn shop carrying a variety of handy gadgets and minor magical items. Her long black curls come nearly to her waist. She wears large round spectacles and walks with a slight slouch, but she is otherwise modestly attractive. Cadrielda is shy and fidgety, and seems to consider interacting with customers to be a necessary evil. She can barely stay afloat because she is always tanking in stray animals. Unknown to most, she was once a druid, but was banished from her circle for dabbling in science, and many of the goods she sells are actually of her own invention."
Kaivoth the Tall,Male Half-orc Hunter," A massive, late middle-aged half-orc with scarred gray skin. He lives as a hunter and adventurer, and is known to be a man of very few words. He carries a locket with a tiny portrait in it, but refuses to say who is pictured there, and worships an obscure dwarvish deity but refuses to say why. Though he normally works solo, a couple rounds of ale might convince him to work alongside the party."
Lazloch Sylveron,"Female Half-elf ""Bounty Hunter"""," An orphaned teenage tomboy living in the slums of a large city. She was once a skilled pick-pocket, but after reading a book by the philosopher Picurales, she underwent a kind of conversion and decided to use her talents for good. Now she is determined to become the world's most famous bounty hunter. She cuts her blonde hair boyishly short and dresses entirely in black leather, as this is what she imagines a bounty hunter is supposed to look like. If pressed, she will insist that she is a full-blooded elf, though she obviously has some human ancestry."
Name Unknown,Male Human Monk," A monk of St Cuthbert, he took a vow of silence at the age of 10. He has yet to speak and is reaching into his 70's. With his ageless body achieved at 10 he has not aged a bit. He spends his life guiding those who are lost in the woods near his Monastery to safety."
Stakta 'Whistletongue',Female Dragonborn(Brass) Captain of the Guard," Stakta spent many a year as a thief, working in the underbelly of the city. One day she was given a job to assassinate a cleric of Bahamut. Not knowing this clerics strength, and falsely assuming in his age he was feeble and unable to defend himself she took a direct approach. She was swiftly beaten, and while lieing near death on the street the cleric began to heal her. Even though not a minute earlier she had tried to take his life, he was ensuring her survival. Thus began her repentance, and her worship of Bahamut."
Vendrick 'Wildheart',Female Gnome Bloodhunter," A powerful bloodhunter, her first kill at the age of 12 she specializes in wielding weapons of uncommonly large size for her race. Constantly under the effects of an illusion she appears before her prey as an innocent human child. She preys specifically on demons, or cursed that hold weapons or items of sentience, even if they've no other power to speak of. She's slowly expanding her circle of 'friends'."
"Torbarth ""the Heavy Handed""",Male Half-Orc Paladin," Among paladins, Torbarth has become a bit of a laughing stock. His approach to rooting out evil and corruption is ask those under scrutiny bluntly: ""do you serve the forces of order and goodness?"" In the case of a no, or an unconvincing response, Torbarth has been known to lurk just over the shoulder of the person in question, making note of their every decision. He has been known to keep this up for upwards of a fortnight before making his final judgement and moving on."
Mill Burray,Male Human Exorcist," Genial and entirely average looking, Mill Burray makes a career of exorcising ghosts. His ""work"" uniform consists of an off-white jumpsuit, a backpack overflowing with dubious looking equipment, and his trusty ghost-dowsing rod. With proper payment delivered half on commission and half on completion, Mill will dowse any haunted site for supernatural entities, and capture them in spirit proof vessels using any number of appropriate rituals or techniques."
"Mekaela ""the Unremarkable""",Female Elf Demonologist," Although nobody could tell you precisely what she looks like, Mekaela has built quite the reputation as a bottomless font of knowledge on demons and the abyss. If asked, she politely diverts any questions about her uncannily unremarkable appearance by saying ""it's just a precaution, strictly necessary in this line of work."" Often the only thing that Mekaela will ask in exchange for a bit of information on demons - or any demon in particular - is that her client keep her informed of any new relevant knowledge they gain. That, and that they spread word of her services, as she is so unremarkable it is understandably hard to do much networking in person."
Brad the Bard,Male Human Troubadour, A prancing ponce whose lyrical beauty is beyond compare But for the nonce let's dwell on his quest for booty so rare His lust for princesses and queens and such ladies fair Landed him in prison five years ago - he yet rots in there!
Ebeneezer Meckinschmit,Male Gnome Mad Traveling Wizard," An old mad mage with a crazy accent. He travels in a wagon that looks splashed in dozens of paints, The wagon can magically open up on the side to create a market stall, complete with counter and a small set of stairs. Ebeneezer sells magical items, but always with a twist. Example: ring of detect fire, range: touch. He travels all across the land, and his wagon will occasionally shoot out fireworks."
Wine Barrelshy,Male Human Politician," A portly man with a knack for wining and dining with all of the city-elite. He is excellent at making friends and connecting people with other people. Well-known for solving the diplomatic standoff between a raven, four rival blacksmiths, and a large kettle of mutton stew. Despite his schmoozing, he has never tasted alcohol. He always acts like he is drinking it before pouring it discretely down his maroon-colored sleeves."
Elyss Iland,Female Elf Recordkeeper," Handles the welcoming of all newcomers to the Elvish lands and ensures that documentation is in order. Keeps meticulous records to the point of insanity, ie. Jerome's family biscuit recipe and Thurn's desire to have tree-limbs for arms. She is the source of the best gossip due to the collision of many backgrounds and personalities. Will often ""strongly advise"" that newcomers offer gratuity in the form of spoons - she has quite the collection."
Thall'um Pineleg,Male Dwarf Craftsman," Injured in the dwarven mines at a young age, Thall'um has permanent need for a wooden crutch. One end of his crutch is functional as a pickaxe, so he leans against the rock and picks with one arm. He is ambidextrous and a lover of symmetry; he will mine with both arms equally so as not to be disproportionate. His companion is a small, mute canary."
Ronny Jainclout,Male Human Weather-Enthusiast," Born in a heavy rainstorm, Ronny has always loved the mightiest of Nature's squalls. Wears a tiny kettle on the top of his hat to collect rainwater - a drink he finds superior to all else. Terrible at small-talk because his idea of riveting conversation is what other people consider dull. Spends hours at a time staring longingly up at the sky before hastily scrawling out inaccurate weather predictions."
Q,"The crow may fly but does not speak, No secrets pour from silent beak..."""," Has an iron medieval plague-mask attached to his face, covering up long scars and awful burns - payment for committing arson. Can only speak in sing-songy rhymes: Plagued with bouts of fear and dementia and will often sit down and rock himself gently until his sanity is restored. Has acute memory loss which makes him a terrible candidate for acting. Instead, he helps the other entertainers in his troupe with various tasks and chores."
Reepa Featherlite,Female Elf Repossession Agent," A discrete ""Repo-Woman"" who reacquires goods through silent thievery. Often employed by the self-righteous elitists who tell long-winded stories of how they gained their wealth. If objects were gained illegally, she...takes the burden off their weak shoulders. She steals from the rich and gives to herself. It's the thought that counts after all, right? Along with her big-ticket items, she always tries to repossess sewing materials for her up-and-coming vintage money-purse business, ""Featherlite Purses: So light you won't even know it's there!"""
Rodencha Kinsly,Female Human Baker," Absolutely LOVES cheese; can't get enough of the stuff. Incorporates it into nearly all of her recipes including apple pies, salads, and salmon bake. Is generally shy & timid. She doesn't like attention and will scurry away at the first sign of social interaction. Quite wary of wizards and magic-dealers in particular. Especially after she was inadvertently part of a wizard's mind-swap experiments. In other news, the experiment may have been partially successful and she may think that she's a mouse."
The Amazing Prosto!,Male Human Magician," Wanders between towns and shares his magical talents with the world. His interest in magic peaked when his uncle pulled a coin from behind his ear. How did he do that?! Has a slight speech impediment, but it does not detract from his charismatic approach to wowing his audience with doves, rabbits, and paper bouquets. He humbly requests that parents refrain from speaking during his performances, since the reason of adults will ruin the experience for his target audience."
Gurglak Goggleschmitt,Male Orc Artificer, Use hands. Smash big stuff. Make small stuff from big stuff crumbs. Gurglak happy. Smash small stuff. Hands too big. Can't make no more stuff. Gurglak sad. Find new stuff.
Ogrim Battlestroke,Male Dwarf Mercenary," Stereotypical warrior dwarf complete with expertly-forged armor and fearsome warhammer. Offers his services to all armies, with his preference being exotic and distant lands. Wakes up before sunrise on the day of battle, breaks out his canvas, and paints stunningly-detailed landscapes of the scene prior to being forever marred by blood and destruction. He sends these paintings back to his mother who thinks that he is merely a world-traveler who wishes to share his journeys with his only family."
Golly the Gambibbler,Male Human Linthijaz," Golly galumphs presently board he once brillig, tromping on loofus made twisty by twill, to trill at a boohome for russets and dogherous burbles."
Russel Folnhir,Male Dragonborn Chef," Large among the largest of Dragonborn, mightier than warriors, quicker than thieves, and smarter than scholars, Russel's ambitions lie solidly in the kitchen. He's often questioned about his peculiar life, that of choosing to be a chef rather than act on what appear to be a divine set of natural talents and opportunities. Russel is better than most at what he tries, but does not care to do anything but cook. He makes a decent sum from his job at a small town's community mess hall, though a lot of his work is done for free out of the love of doing it. Has a halfling wife named Margaret, who works part time as a lumberjack."
Sifvilgyplidiven the Unpronounceable,Male Human-ish Wizard," Sifvilgyplidiven doesn't remember much of his parents, Tyghroiulmborttsmn and Yyyalianmmhjahtyrhba, but knows that his name has some greater meaning. He lives a simple life in an underground home beneath his pet project, a self-sufficient haberdashery catering mainly to the sale of hats. Despite being a wizard he is unable to do much beyond basic tricks, but knows more about obscure rituals and spells than anyone. He will teach travelers these things, but only if they can pronounce his name. Those who succeed also get a discount on hats."
John Smith,Male Human Commoner," John constantly feels like the background character of a good book. His best friends Rydgar and Thorgrin the God Slayer seem exciting, living adventurous lives. In comparison, he's content with the simple 9-5 bustle of his medium sized town, his average home, and his hobbies. He collects coins of historical value, and has a large collection that he's quite proud of. John is so normal that he almost feels out of place. But then, how normal can he be? If normal is a barbarian devil killer, then isn't John abnormal? But that doesn't seem right. He is normal, it's the world that's strange! John wrestles with these thoughts often."
Mepis Soutan,Female Half-Elf Journalist," Journalism isn't exactly the most respected career paths in the world, but it's exciting. Mepis got her start writing for The Copper Pape writing about the unimportant nonsense of small town life such as which blacksmith was hammering who's codpieces. She caught a big break after securing an exclusive interview with Pelor, somewhat breaching her ethics policies by bribing him with the famous muffins of a local chef Russel Folnhir. She's now a columnist for The Astral Quill, and has been trying to secure an interview with someone that will take her career to the next level."
Eubor Westmin,Undead Arms Dealer," Eubor was once a person of some description, turned undead by some necromancer of some other description. He doesn't care for the particulars. Upon being raised, Eubor found that being an undead minion wasn't for him so he left to pursue other options. He now makes a living by taking weapons from dungeons, battlefields, etc and selling them. It's not a noble living, nor a living at all for Eubor, but it occupies eternity."
Yulmon Taed,Male Human Author," Yulmon occupies his time writing short stories, as well as occasional re-imaginings of folklore. His first book, The Boy and the Sweet +4 Shortsword was a big hit, giving him the fanbase to leave his miserable job as a haberdasher and write full time. He mainly sells his stories to The Astral Quill. Right now he's working on his first novel, A Game of Fancy Chairs."
Hirai Doyle,Male Child Detective?," Hirai is a child who calls himself a detective, and seems to possess intelligence and skills unlike any child should have. He also looks remarkably similar to a teenage detective from the area who went missing the same day the boy appeared, though with some glasses. This is of course just a coincidence, obviously. He frequently gets into dangerous situations, left to save the day using various gadgets created for him by his elderly gnome friend, Instructor Christie Herschel."
Daven Frealor,Male Human Actor," Daven is an actor, that much is simple. His real last name is Radtaie, but he changed it as there was already an actor named Daven Radtaie and there are rules to this business. He's considered semi-famous, holding a lot of minor roles in the big plays and some major roles in the smaller ones. His upcoming gig, standing in for a larger actor who quit acting to pursue a career in haberdashing, could be what he needs to break into the big leagues. His acting's fine, but he's just a bit too dramatic at times. If you want more detail, Mepis Soutan once reviewed his performance in Undeath of a Salesman."
Dot,Male and Female Human Twins," Pip and Dot are male and female, respectfully, and are identical twins. As kids it was cute, but as they grew older their interests diverged and now they just get on each other's nerves. Pip is an enchanter, and Dot is a ranger. Both are highly respected by those around them, and both are proper and well mannered. Put them together and they argue like children. Without having talked to each other in years, they each met and married one of a set of twins, Tim and Tammy, with similar circumstances and none of the four knowing anything about the situation. Coincidentally, Pip and Dot's older brother Jon is good friends with Tim and Tammy's older sister Jane, having met outside the situation. That first family reunion was a confusing one."
Bryce Bladewalker,Male. Human druid. Serial Killer.," Favourite saying: The only thing I'll trust a woman to do is stay dead. Personality: A real go-getter, he can't stand laziness. Alcoholic. Widowed. Important memories: His wife, leaving him for a wizard whose every need was attended by magical servants. Strangling that wizard with his bear hands. An alcohol-fuelled haze of pain and regret."
Laura Midsommer,Female Human Basket-weaver," She sits outside on clear days, weaving. With subtle yet somehow striking auburn hair, and a face rounded but fine. ""The Jewel of the town"" she was described. She is however as cold to others as the north wind."
Stonebeard,Male Dwarf Mason," ""Stonebeard"" not going by his birth name due to a contempt for his father who is considered ""A lousy drunkard"" even among dwarfs. Due to this he has a unusual fondness of ""family values"" and has a strong moral code. He travels around the human cities offering his extensive knowledge on stonework."
Antonio Pyre,Male Human Acolyte," Acolytes are often seen as unsociable to regular folk. Antonio is a man of common tastes, which has left him unable to gain higher status in his church. He would spend his evenings drinking and whoring. His sins should not be taken for complacency in religion, in his sinful conquests he would take the lowest of the low into the arms of god."
Evylin Silverwind,Female Elf(?) Adviser-to-the-king," A beautiful elf with silver hair flowing to her ankles. She is rarely seen far from the king, the few that have spoken too her see her as unusual. She is mostly unversed in human culture, unusual for anyone living in the heart of a human city."
Stron Leather-Arm,Male Half-Orc Butcher," Stron is a brazen fellow, harsh of word and sharp of tongue. Many distrust him as a half-orc, his profession does not help public opinion. While many butchers do not care much for the final product, Stron is a true gourmet, not cut of meat is too fine for his taste. He shares this only with his more friendly customers."
Sapphire,Female Human Prostitute/Spy," Many prostitutes in the slums are driven to it by lack of options. Sapphire however has carved her own path from day one, she was a sharp young lady, too good for a brothel, but she was happy with it. After a few years, she knew how eager men (and some women) were to spill their guts. The lesson Sapphire learned was playing with politics was much more profitable."
Marrak Sunstone,Male Human Arena-Fighter," A man skilled in the martial arts is not uncommon, but one that can work a crowd so well is. A strong distinguished jawline and an even stronger voice. He is known for fighting with a falchion and sling, rather than the more common sword and shield."
Biri Bluebarrel,Female Halfling Brewer," From a long line of famous brewers, Biri is no less skilled. The fine blue-tinted ale her family is named for however is like poison to her tongue. Biri is cursed to never enjoy her gifts. She is loved by many, and despite not drinking makes any party lively."
Thalar Yet,Female Dragonborn Wandering Teacher," Thalar always found an odd love of humans, interested in their quarrels and struggles. She alone has become almost a legend travelling from village to village, every one left better off for it. She was taught well while young possessing great knowledge in healing, agriculture and combat. Thalar's love of humans even lead to her discarding the name of her clan for a name that humans found easier to say."
Skarrak Sunlight,Male Tiefling Priest," Masochist, is the one word that comes to mind when people speak of Skarrak. He is hated for his appearance, yet he retains a paragon of honor, virtue and piety. Through great pain he has removed his horns, over years cut away his tail. A man wounded in mind, some pity him above all others. (Phew 10, I should probably stop now)"
Sarim Marshwalker,Male Half-Orc Ranger," Lives on the edge of the swamplands, and will act as a guide for any who can pay a fair tariff. Though outwardly gruff, he can be fairly pleasant. That is, unless you ask about his scars... The last group to pass that way still haven't been found."
Ravn Erickson,Male Human Bard," Old man Ravn has a tale for every night of the year, and knows more songs than there are stars in the sky. He wonders the northlands in search of heroes and adventurers to question, and will happily allow a road-weary party to share his fire in exchange for their story. His sage advice has more than once saved kingdoms from collapse, and is a welcome guest at any lord's dwelling."
Winna,Female Human Barmaid," Though she seems dim at first, young Winna is as sharp as a razor. She knows all the comings and goings in town, and rumour has it she knows the leaders of the Thieves Guild. Woe betide any who would raise a hand to her."
Valdi Galanodel,Female Elf Ranger," A strong but paranoid leader, Valdi is fiercely protective of both her land and her kin. She views outsiders with vehement disdain, and rarely allows trespassers on her land to pass unchallenged. Her pride has led to friction with the nearby human and dwarf settlements, and both are becoming increasingly concerned by her readiness to slay any who put so much as a toe across her borders."
Lord Kristian Fiermann,Male Human Lord," As corrupt as they come, Lord Fiermann sees himself a strong and capable man, though in fact his strength comes from his wife and her family, whose ambition far outstrips his. He frequently raises taxes to support his wife's ""projects"", and turns a blind eye to the numerous missing villagers who seem to wind up in his dungeons. He won't have anything to do with dark magic, though it is clear his wife is secretly attempting to summon demons to further her own goals."
Jackson Stern,Male Human Miscreant," Everyone in town knows Jackson, forever in trouble with the Town Guard. He's a troubled boy, and his petty crimes are going to see him hung. He strives to be the best thief this side of the Eastern Sea, but is so clumsy he mostly ends up causing minor damage to properties instead, before failing to steal anything before the Town Guard turns up to drag him back to the cell in the barracks. They joke he should be paying them rent."
Father Osmund,Male Human Cleric (War Domain)," Old Father Osmund is a devout racist. Though he outwardly strives to ""better the world"", he is zealous to the point of fanaticism. He can be found wherever there is a human lord looking to stamp out a local non-human community, or otherwise spends his time persecuting non-human members of society. He seeds rumours, sometimes even planting incriminating evidence in dwellings, before offering to be the one to deal with them once the mob is roused."
Tess D'Orvic,Female Human Sorcerer," Tess is the epitome of bad luck. Though she is one of the strongest sorcerers in the land, her art rarely manifests itself in the way she intends. She's on the run now, after that time she agreed to help deal with a ghost in the town cemetery, only to accidentally disturb all the other resting souls into haunting the town. When she reported to the council, so deep was her anxiety that her wild magic flared once again, and now none of them can talk, except to make farm animal noises. The price on her head is quite large these days."
Asher,Male Human Rogue," No job is too grim for Asher - for the right price he'll do almost anything. And he is good at what he does. Once the fee is paid, you won't see him again until the job is done. Don't expect him to stay quiet about it though. A few ales and he'll tell anyone anything."
Kydd,Female(?) Human(?) Child(?)," No-one knows anything about Kydd's origins. She is only ever seen before a town suffers a cataclysmic event, and stories of her appearances go back centuries. There have only been two occasions where she has spoken, and the persons to which she spoke became heroes of legend. No town has ever survived longer than 24 hours after she appears there. Perhaps she is the cause, or merely a warning?"
Estragon Morrins,Mysterious Gnome Merchant, A middle-aged man who feigns madness and sells an incredibly powerful poison known to cause septicemia which is in fact ditchwater.
Old Greg,Generic Old Guy," Greg is a generic old guy who sits in the corner of the tavern and occasionally shouts 'Lord Sprinkleton? Ah, not many people know the story of Lord Sprinkleton these days'. Unfortunately, he doesn't know all that much. He will only ever recount his childhood on the farm and explain vaguely relevant elven and dwarfish conspiracies because he is violently racist."
Rod Osmington,Angry Merchant," Rod has just escaped a troubled relationship with his father, in which his father decided to give him his full inheritance in chickens and land. Rod is now seeking people who will trade chickens for chicken food or actual money, and is therefore first seen leading thirty chickens or so. He does not like talking about it and will be gruff to any that ask why he has so many chickens."
John the cat,A Cat," John is a cat, who will follow the party around. Flip a coin: Heads, he's the familiar of a suitably powerful wizard. Tails, he's literally just a cat. He is exceptionally stupid, and will often run off to stupid places. If the party decides to follow him around, he will consistently get them into trouble by biting important people, running away to secret bandit hideouts, and attacking the wizard's spellbook."
Triggart Darkfeather,"Tengu, Merchant"," I dont have time to do the Ten but Ill toss a few in here. Two of whom I played before starting DMing, Ive found them useful as NPCs because I like them. Small and pale and a great desire to be evil. Sometimes sides with good for his own later benefit. Wanted nothing more than to become a Lich god. Hated good Necromancers more than anything in the world. Hated his father for cruel magical experiments. VERY strong hatred of anything evil. Able to detect alignments, worshiped a troll god. Used a sword that was too big for him and was way smarter than him. After his people were killed he was raised from infancy by a gang of human thieves. Believed himself for a long time to be human, thinks everyone sees him as human. He often thinks he needs to explain to people that he isnt human. Because he was raised by humans he behaves like a human and not an elf. Mildly racist against any other race. See's Tengu as inherintly superior. Loves shiny things. Makes no bones about using other races for his own benefit. This is all I have time for. Id love to do more but maybe Ill comment again later if I can."
"Thurnaz ""Stormchaser"" Gathakanathi",Male Goliath Cleric (Tempest Domain)," He always felt an affinity for foul weather, so one day he left his family and followed the storms around the mountains. One day, he came across a shrine below a statue of a storm god, with a chest. The chest contained armour, robes and weapons, all marked with the sign of the storm (lightning bolts, wind and clouds). He believes that the storm spirits chose him for great things."
Keranth Arbright,Male Human Wizard," Keranth is about 68 years old, has a heavily lined face and long white hair and a short beard. He tells people this: He has spent the majority of his life on purely theoretical studies of the arcane, and has recently sold his house to go travelling. The truth is this: He is a necromancer, whose spellbook is his own flesh. Spells are tattooed onto his body using the blood of innocents as ink. The main hint of this is that he does not have a spellbook. He is a generally kindly fellow with a cheerful attitude to life, whenever in company."
Jeorg Spravahich,Male Orc Weaponsmith," Some people, upon entering the weaponsmiths trade, settle for reliability and a steady income by manufacturing swords, axes, shields, the usual. Not Jeorg. Jeorg specialises in experimental seige weaponry, with emphasis on ""mental"". Ballistae which fire smaller ballistae, giant crossbows which fire metal shrapnel in almost every direction, trebuchets with a range of several kilometers but fall apart every time you fire them, he makes them all. And as he watches the test-shots, he laughs a deep hearty laugh that hints at the insanity within. (Based on this guy.)"
Yuguhhurukk Rachhanahhach,Male Gnome Barbarian," It is not exactly certain that his name really is ""Yuguhhurukk Rachhanahhach"", everyone simply assumes that it is because that is what he introduces himself as. His speech is distorted, however, by the ritual piercings of a member of his tribe who is on a Blood Quest. This piercing takes the form of a relatively large iron bar passing through both cheeks, impaling the tounge in passing, with symbols of his god on the end of each bar, holding it in place. He also abhors writing, making communication all but impossible. He has settled in the countryside far from his homeland, as some unknown incident has erased his memory of the details of Blood Quest, he only remembers that he is on one, and that the bar may not be removed before it is complete. His speech is incomprehensible. For example, ""Can you direct me to the nearest tavern?"" becomes ""Chlaag urghh urechh ee oo aa eggaech aggerrr?"""
Kimberly Parish,Female Vampire Innkeeper," Kimberly tends a bar in a dive town, and yet somehow the bar patrons are unusually quiet and docile once through the doors. Unlike any other inn in town, disputes are settled calmly, fights are unheard of, and lewd behaviour is nonexistent. This may have something to do with the covered bite marks on the patrons shoulders, and what may be hidden behind the scarf Kimberly keeps wrapped around her neck."
Vonrick the Valient,Male Human Paladin/Knight," Vonrick is the quinessential knight; he is tall, strongly-built and honourable as well as charming. He only hopes that none find out his gifts with the sword and lance came as a deal with a demon. The price was the life of his own brother, who Vonrick led to the lake and drowned as a young teen."
Old Obert,Male Human Wizard," While Obert is pushing 100 years of age, he will vehemently argue any claims that his abilities are dwindling. He spends most of his time alone in his tower outside of the village, trying to perfect a spell he had dreamed of years ago."
Peter of the Old Order,Male Human Cleric," Under his cream-coloured cloak and old roughspun tunic and with his gentle way of speaking, one may confuse Peter as a man against violence. However, he is a recruiter for one of the strongest military-churches in the land and had no qualms against wielding his hammer against those he sees as sinners."
Sir Michael Mill,Male Human Sword-fighting instructor," Michael showed great promise with the sword in his youth, and was even knighted for his efforts in battle. However, at the age of 21, he stepped in a bear trap. The foot became infected and it was amputed. He now trains the younger boys in his town on swordplay."
"""Lute""",Male halfling Bard," A travelling singer and lute-player, simply known as ""Lute"". He chooses to follow adventuring parties for inspiration for new songs."
"Ella ""Nightstinger""",Female Half-elf Archer/Hunter," Growing up as a Half-Elf in a Human village can be difficult enough, especially when one wants to become the first female hunter. However, her ability to hunt at night has earned her the respect of the others."
Keltrin,Female Human Warlock," Cloaked in blacks and reds, Keltrin always seeks out new cities to perform her dark magic. For a price, one can borrow her skills, but there is no knowing when your payment will be finished."
Quiet Ben,Male Human Bodyguard," Three things make Ben the outstanding bodyguard that he is: his bear-like stature, his loyalty to his employer and the day his father cut his tongue out for humiliating him in front of a Prince."
Maggie Bluestream,Female Half-Elf birdkeeper," Maggie is a Half-Elf. She understands that there are those in this world who do not take kindly to species-mixing. Her brother had warned her as much before he was captured in a raid when they were young. She has cut off the points to her ears, takes in the sun as much as she can, and plays the fool when she hears Elvish being spoken. She dresses herself in Human clothing, and has stopped practising any customs from her childhood. She has been put in charge of the messenger-pigeons for the Baron, and prays that one day she finds Elves contacting him, so she may try to find a home with people more accepting."
Khyban,Female Dragonborn General," Khyban was never meant to become a General. She had six brothers, all of them strong and capable of command. It was Khyban's lot to work with potions, or inter-clan diplomacy, or to help raise the younglings of her brothers. Dragonborn clans don't often look kindly on those who reject the role given to them. But when a Dragonborn returns home one night displaying the severed head of a Hill Giant, before they have even fully reached adulthood, it is impossible to ignore them. Khyban knows how to reward captains and soldiers who please her in battle. Displeasing Khyban rarely happens now."
Sir Annory Garfield,Male Human Captain," Though his family name does carry importance in the kingdom, there isn't a knight who thinks Annory has earned the respect himself. Sir Annory has notoriously been part of battles that were already largely won, or were an easy victory. He has always requested to be stationed near less-troublesome areas. However, none of this works to lessen his arrogance, and he will inflate his achievements in battle whenever his honour is questioned."
Darber Claytop,Male Dwarf Diplomat," Darber is perhaps the only famous Dwarf in the kingdom who didn't earn such fame with a weapon. His crowning achievement thus far has been his negotiations with Karg the Big. Karg was an Orc chieftan who had grown his war pack large enough to threaten the city. However, using his snakelike tongue, Darber was able to stave off the Orc invasion for four full days; enough time for reinforcement cavalry to arrive and smash the Orc host. Darber now works within the city as a highly-respected ambassador."
Captain Bobbla of the Cerulean Shadow,Female Halfling Pirate," When she is in the company of other pirate captains, Bobbla will brag that her ship hasn't needed to seek a shore in over eight years. Her success with ship-raiding has been such that the sea provides all the treasure she needs. She leads her crew of Halflings in the long, blue-painted ship known as the Cerulean Shadow. If Bobbla wishes to remain unseen in a shadow, she will do so. If she desires that her ship remain unseen in broad daylight, it too will do so. No non-Halfling have ever survived once they step on Bobbla's ship, so the secret to the boat's stealth remains a mystery."
Gretchen Farseer,Female Human Soothsayer," Gretchen was once a talented seer for her marshland clan. She had correctly predicted bandit raids, locust swarms, plague, lightning storms and even wars. Her predictions have saved her clan innumerable times, and for this she has been treated with great reverence within her clan. It is a shame that her talents have dwindled with her advanced age, however. It has been four years since she has claimed to see anything but the supposedly incoming ""ocean of fire""."
Elena Redlegs,Female Human Goblin Queen," Goblins attacker her village. Her daughter was killed in the raid by a Goblin chieftan. She begged her king for help, but none was provided. So she took her kitchen knife, sneaked into the Goblin cave, somehow found the sleeping chieftan and took his head. She was found soaked in his blood, and carrying his head. For this, the Goblins kneeled to her and proclaimed her the new chieftan. For the past two years, Elena has led raids with her ever-growing Goblin clan on her former king's outposts for revenge of his inaction."
Handsome Andre,Male Human creeper," I can offer some that were discontinued from previous campaigns that I liked: An expert marksman who could thread a needle with an arrow at 100 yards despite only being 13 years old. Will no doubt be a legend in years to come. Very shy and has unfortunate bumfluff. Physically quite weak, and cannot finish a sentence without his voice cracking. Once was nearly killed by an Owlbear. Well known in his small town for bringing home large game from hunts with expert killing blows. Andre is a 1/10 ugly creepy dude with a smoking hot 10/10 wife. He was given the ironic nickname ""Handsome"" after he married his extremely attractive and loyal wife who is beloved by the town. Unknown to the townsfolk Andre made a pact to sell his soul to a demon when he was young in order to make his high school crush fall in love with him forever. (In my game he was a warlock but he doesn't have to be) He was an adventurer for several years, and uses the money he earned to make a living as a patron of local sculptors, masons and painters, paying their living expenses for an extortionate proportion of the profits from their work."
Thaemos Leafstrider,Male Wood Elf Priest," A handsome elf with golden hair and an uneasy smile. He is sympathetic to those who suffer, but he is very cautious to meddle in others affairs: ""That is nature's way."" He is (or was) the caretaker of a sacred place, deep in an ancient forest. He is loathe to share the secrets of that place."
Mairiel Moonblossom,Female Wood Elf Druid," Long, silky amber hair frames the elf-maiden's sharp features and deep blue eyes. She lives lonely, even by wood elf standards. She spends most of her days meditating in a remote sacred grove in an ancient forest that is filled with terrors. She knows many secrets of the forest, but the promise of uncovering its deeper secrets can draw her away from her sacred grove."
Eloranae Mistdancer,Female Wood Elf Ranger," The elf wears a dull cloak clasped beneath her chin with a brooch of swirling crystal; her iridescent green eyes gaze wistfully as her platinum hair flutters gently in the wind. Eloranae has been walking to the ends of the world, looking for what few wood elves remain. She is the last of her house and carries an immense sorrow behind her eyes. She is a true friend, but unleash's an incredible fury upon her enemies, sometimes waiting decades or centuries before the opportune moment to take revenge."
Corian Leafstrider,Male Wood Elf Scout," The blonde elf tosses his hair over his shoulder and stifles his laugh long enough to take a swallow of wine from the skin that hangs about his neck. When set on a task, Corian will carry it out with unerring determination; his family sometimes jokingly chide him as ""Half-Elven,"" suggesting he may carry the blood of men within him. When not on a specific mission, Corian is a merry companion; keeping company mostly with men and halflings in the travelers' camps in the forest or at the travelers' along the road. His family, especially his brother, thinks Corian is a troublemaker; the truth is Corian feels the sadness and loss that others do, perhaps more sharply, and he drinks and makes-merry so as not to be consumed by the gloom."
Cirthoeil II of House Darkwater,Male Wood Elf King," A muscular elf with golden brown hair and a grim countenance. Cirthoeil has reigned as the King of the Shadowwood for centuries, though few outside his woodland realm have ever heard of him; he is a just ruler among his people, but he is not kind to outsiders. In his youth, he traveled widely and fought bravely against many earthly and otherworldly evils. Possessing no magical gifts of his own, he is especially jealous and suspicious of spellcasters or those who carry items of great magical power with them."
"Winnie ""The Pixie"" Shoemaker",Female Human Harlot," This petite, sleepy-eyed brunette was beautiful once, and she can still enchant: It's in the way she moves. Winnie has had a hard go of it, she rarely laughs anymore, and no one seems to know where she grew up. She's been a staple of the taverns and brothels of the River District for years, and she's notched some impressive tricks into her belt: Fearsome outlaws, well-known ship captains, wealthy merchants, and ""the world's greatest thief."" She used to be the life of the party, but the joy of ale and wine have begun to wane, as does her beauty."
Aldorn Braxton,Male Human Thief," A dark-eyed man with a winning grin scans the room with his keen eyes. Aldorn is a treasure-hunter, a thrill-seeker, an excellent friend to those who will lead him to opportunities for gold and glory. He claims to be the ""world's greatest thief,"" and he's well-known in the low districts and in high society alike, though he's not always welcome in either. Aldorn is quick to draw on his wits and his knife for any who doubt his claims, but he knows when to run: ""The better part of greatness is staying alive."""
"""Hobo"" Tim",Male Human Drunk," A portly man with several tattoos mumbles incoherently from under his long, unkempt grey beard. The people of the River District call him ""Tim,"" and he answers, but no one really knows his name (of course, they call him ""Hobo,"" and he answers to that too. He is usually harmless, mumbling about needing coin at passers by; erratically, he will last out with racist tirades, particularly directing them at dwarves. He has been stumbling around the River District for at least fifteen years; although it's not clear if he even knows who or what he was before then, he does sport an unusual tattoo of a man-spearing-a-shark-eating-a-dragon-eating-a-dwarf."
Sir Ayrin Favager,Male Human Knight," Sir Ayrin clanks about in his steel armor, carrying a warhammer, a shield, and a holier-than-thou attitude. He grew up as a commoner, a blacksmith's apprentice, but he was raised up to knighthood after he saved a powerful lord's son in a skirmish with a rival at a tavern. Sir Ayrin had been proud of his work at the forge; now he's even prouder of his elevated social rank. He tends to be suspicious that people are cheating him; after being offered the position of knight, he first refused believing the lord's messenger was mocking him."
Ole Moonsen,Male Human Sailor," Atop Ole's big frame sits a red-round head with dark, short-cropped hair, dark stubble of a beard, and watery blue eyes. He has sailed on trading vessels up and down the coast for several years. Ole tends to be forgetful about details, but he's reliable enough when it comes to the tasks aboard a ship. He loves to share bawdy stories and jokes over some wine or ale, and once he starts drinking, he rarely stops until he's snoring."
Baris Tyrento,Male Human Sheepherder," Unshaven and unwashed, Baris stinks of sheep and looks even worse, clad in filthy leathers and a ragged cloak. He owns a few dozen sheep and scrapes a living off sale of wool (and occasionally mutton) that he trades with the merchant caravans that venture far enough north to pass his homestead. Ever since he caught a caravan guard flirting with her, Baris fears that his pretty young wife will leave him for someone more handsome and dashing. Baris was twice before, but each of his previous wives left him childless when she died."
"Iliana ""Illy"" Portnoir",Female Human Assassin," Illy is a beautiful dark-haired woman with a small but athletic frame and lips that were made for kissing. She lies about everything: ""Don't trust me,"" she coos with a wink. She hires her services (many as they are) out for a steep price, but she always delivers: ""No one does it better than me,"" she says with a sweet smile. Most kills are strictly business, but some kills she enjoys, as she seeks the men who killed her father when she was a girl."
"Gerwac, the Knowing",Male Human Wizard-Headmaster," Few have seen the face of the headmaster of the Steelmoon Academy, but those who have describe him as a thin man with an unsettling gaze. He spends much of his time in the seclusion of his study; on occasion, he visits the school's library or walks the grounds, wearing a heavy black cloak with a hood drawn about his face. Nothing is known of Gerwac before he founded the school a few decades ago, choosing what is believed to be a haunted mountain for its grounds. His school is as secretive as he is; little is known about the school to those outside it, and it is whispered that the students fear him tremendously."
Daek Obskur,Male Human Curio-Shopkeeper," The spry old man has silver gray hair and whiskers and ruddy skin stretched across his long hooked nose and the rest of his bony face; he eyes his customers keenly. ""Welcome, welcome! May I collect the dust from your feet? Travelers' feet are full of interesting sands and lints from far off places—quite useful for magic."" The old man doesn't wait for an answer but drops his book and scrambles over the counter to begin collecting dirt from his customers' feet, collecting it into small glass vials. He is cautious about local laws, but he knows a good customer when he sees one; he raises his voice speaking loud enough that anyone out on the street could hear him, ""Though I don't know how to do any magic myself."""
Torrek Holdeger,Male Dwarf Armorer," The dwarf pensively strokes the long dark brown braid of his beard; his other hand rests atop the hammer strapped to his belt. Torrek is a perfectionist; trained by a master craftsman, his own skill exceeds that of his former mentor. Since becoming a refugee after the destruction of his kingdom, Torrek has been reduced to taking on journeyman work at various forges. Torrek would like to settle some place quiet where he can open his own forge; he hates the city."
Torgrim Holdeger,Male Dwarf Soldier," The dwarf clad in mail carries a large battleaxe; his long black beard is tidy and combed out straight. Torgrim learned some rudimentary healing skills while serving as a soldier to his king; he never had the patience to study the healing arts properly. Since the goblin horde over-ran his kingdom, Torgrim has taken on a variety of jobs as a mercenary or enforcer. Torgrim is fond of drinking, carousing, and fighting; he enjoys life in the city."
Jurk Ironbiter,Male Dwarf Berserker," The dwarf seems to be staring at nothing, his auburn beard a wild tangle; then he stares right at you. Jurk's gaze is unsettling, he rarely speaks, and he is fearless in battle. His grip on sanity slipped after seeing the goblins smash his king's army and take the king himself. Jurk will fiercely defend the honor of his fallen king at the least provocation."
Cirolas Summerstar,Male High Elf Storyteller," The lanky, brown-haired elf looks about with his wide green eyes, taking in everything. He knows the histories and songs of many peoples and places, their legends and their endings, and can tell their stories so they are all-at-once epic, personal, comedic, and tragic. He knows how to tell a story, but he also knows how to listen for one: ""And then?"" nodding eagerly. He belongs to an ancient and noble house and is seeking some secret piece of lore."
Jelenneth Wintermoon,Female High Elf Oracle, The sight of the thin blonde elf with brilliant blue eyes and a faraway gaze fills you with a pang of loss. She has watched the stars for centuries; she knows the doom they foretell and it fills her with sadness. Jelenneth longs to uncover new portents and omens that contradict what she has foreseen. She is often distracted from the most pressing questions by the opportunity to learn something new by following a tangential train of thought.
"Thrakk, the Chief of the Palefists, Lord of Eastern Horde, Slayer of Men, Eater of Elves",Male Orc Warlord," Thrakk is bigger, meaner, and smarter than the other 10,000 orcs of the Eastern Horde; don't get in his way. He ascended to chief of the Palefist clan at a relatively young age by stabbing the previous chief through the back with his blade, cutting his heart out, and devouring it; ever since, he's been uniting the Eastern clans through a combination of intimidation, bribery, slaughter, and lies. Thrakk has aspirations to drive the Eastern Horde over the mountains to invade the Western Kingdoms; if he can and if he adds the Northern clans to his horde, he may well conquer the world. If you meet Thrakk, chances are you are already dead and on his dinner plate; if you're alive, he must see some use for you, and he'll most likely kill you when that use has expired."
Kuranath,Male Half-Orc Pit-Fighter," Scars cover much of his nearly hairless head and neck, and he often cradles an oddly shaped brass knuckle in his hand. He enjoys being around people, but he is often silent among them. He is an escaped slave, and he is frightened that his cruel former masters may find him: ""I never stay in one place too long."" He despises fighting in the pits, but it's all he's ever known, and he wins."
Lurg,Male Half-Orc Thug," The half-orc's dark eyes dimly follow the fly that has been attracted to his revolting scent, as he lines up to swat it with his club. Lurg is big and stupid, but he can follow simple instructions well enough. He will readily follow anyone who promises him the opportunity to smash things, taking greater satisfaction from this than from anything gold can buy. Lurg is easily distracted by food, and he is particularly fond of wines and pungent cheeses."
Gaeryon Vyn Dordevetym,Male Human Merchant," The cloth merchant laughs nervously as he wipes the sweat from his brow with a lace-trimmed silk handkerchief. Gaeryon is a member of a wealthy merchant family who owns the exclusive a share of rights to export of the cloth produced by the weavers' guild in the city. He travels the roads in a yearly cycle with a small cadre of guards and a man-servant, purchasing raw wool from rural sheepherders and bringing them cloth and a handful of other dry goods produced in the city. Gaeryon is friendly but he despises travel: if he had his way, he'd work in the family's offices and stay at home with his wife and children year-round."
Sir Roderick Chansym,Male Human Knight," Sir Roderick, handsome, tall, and blonde, stares at you with some of the sweetest blue eyes you've ever seen. One of the king's boldest knights, Sir Roderick has gained renown throughout the realm for his brave deeds. He rose to prominence by winning the princess's name day tournament: there is a rumor that he harbors a secret love for her. Sir Roderick plays the part of the pure and genteel knight well, but he's actually quite a rake when he thinks no one from court is watching."
Valaerys Nightspear,Female Dark Elf Warrior," Silver-haired with sharp features, Valaerys fled from her home in the Underdark after attempting to spirit away a pair of frightened young human girls who had been taken as slaves during a surface raid. Moved by compassion, she managed to help one girl escape, but the other was run down by her former comrades in the attempt. Having been seen in the attempt, she had no choice but to run or to face death, as would have been the punishment meted out by the spider priestess. She and her young companion have been wandering the shadow lands for 15 years now, taking on what small quests they can while avoiding encounters with other dark elves at all cost."
"Mirmarye ""Mimi"" Sohuster",Female Human Assassin," As a young girl, dark elves raided Mimi's village, kidnapping her and her sister. Mimi escaped with the help of a dark elf warrior, who has since served as her guardian and companion while they wandered the shadow lands as refugees. Growing up on the move and among the rough and the lowly, Mimi became quite good at sneaking, stealing, and knifing her way out of many desperate situations. Mimi has grown to be a beautiful dark-haired young woman, but she is grim and pessimistic, harboring suspicion against strangers, especially human men and all elves, except for her companion."
Sister Niradella Tariskoff,Female Human Priestess," Hailing from the North, Niradella is the winter fury, the cold wind that cuts to the bone; her icy stare hides the true meaning of her words. Her widowed mother, unable to support her, left her to be raised as an initiate in to the Storm King's Temple of Winter as a small girl. By the aid of her instructors and her Northern blood, she has grown powerful: well-versed in magical lore, skilled in the healing arts, capable of manipulating the forces of winter, and deadly to the temple's enemies. Though loyal to the temple's hierarchy and purposes, Niradella does not know how her father died nor what became of her mother; the chance to uncover these truths could tempt her to break her vows."
Thia Gallytuck,Female Halfling Innkeeper," A pleasingly plump halfling with a long, dark braid, and a welcoming smile. Thia is a nurturing soul who loves to cook for her guests: They say she makes the best pies this side of the old forest. She runs (or ran) an inn that belonged to her father in a small riverside village. A heartbreaking fate befell her sweetheart, and she sometimes drowns her sorrows in ale."
Tom Watters,Male Halfling Ferryman," A friendly little chap with an unfortunate scar in the shape of an onion on his left cheek. Watters poles the ferry that serves as the primary crossing for the river at the edge of his village; he enjoys talking to travelers. When he's not at the ferry, he's probably out walking the woods--a practice he finds therapeutic since he gave up gambling. He owes a considerable gambling debt to a bandit: Occasionally, the ne'er-do-well presses him to ferry him across the river in the dead of night as a favor."
Finnan Wetherwise,Male Halfling Pickpocket," The halfling scowls into his mug of ale, bushy brown eyebrows arching over dark brown eyes. Finnan will lift anything of value that is not tied down, and he may even try to take some of those things as well. He is loyal to his friends, but he is not keen on making any new ones. When he spots something valuable, Finnan will brood and stare at it until he can work out how to lift it."
Baznar Metalshine,Male Halfling Sheriff," The ruddy-faced halfling puffs out his chest and reaches for the shortsword at his belt and marches in your direction. The son of a gardener, his parents named him Barnabas Arthor Tinsparkle at birth; he started calling himself Baznar Metalshine as a youth because he thought it sounded tougher than Barney Tinsparkle. Though generally well-intentioned, Baznar can be a bit of a nosy, self-righteous ass. Baznar knows everything about everyone in the village, but if you call him ""Barney"" you can forget about getting any help from him."
"Male, Human, Ships Captain",Arnold Johnson," He owns the Jolly Sailor a rag-tag ship with a sloppily painted pink stripe with the ships name on it. He has a big blonde bushy beard and a head smooth as a bowling ball, with some sapphire eyes to top it off. He is a jolly fellow who employ a band to play at the helm of ship while his men sing songs as they row. He's Arnold Johnson merchant extraordinaire."
Rick Dane,Male Human Wizard," Rick is a very successful, middle-aged wizard. He lives in his own pocket dimesion which resembles a big mansion surrounded by a forest. He lives in the mansion alongside his tamed imp servants. His wife is a kind female djin, who he met while foraging for alchemy ingredients. He fell head over heels for her. In his early days rick was an adventurer. His reputation got him invited to the League Of Extraordinary Adventurer."
Sharom Virak,Male Human Shopkeeper," Sharom is calm and pensive, his gaze seems attentive but sad like something is missing from his life. Sharom is haunted by the memories of loosing his wife, Parsala in one of the many raids that the town has had to endured. Sharom used to be happy and gleeful, until the day they took his wife. As a shopkeeper, he is patient and tries to explain what things are to adventurers who have never seen certain items. Additionally, Sharom is trying to teach the business to his only son, Shendi."
Shendi Virak,male human shopkeeper apprentice," Shendi is distracted, oblivious and forgetful. His father has explained him time and time again how much things cost and what they are, and he sometimes forgets. Shendi loves new visitors and will ask them all kinds of questions. Unlike his father, he is charismatic and doesn't gloom over the loss of his mother as frequently. Shendi is good at names, that much he remembers and if adventurers tell him where they are going, the next time they return he will ask them about their travels and sit and talk with them for a while. Shendi dreams of being an adventurer, and has tried to get his father to teach him how to use the weapons they sell to no avail."
Theomund Tarley,Male half-Elven drunk tinkerer," Slender half elf in his mid thirties. Patchy beard, unkempt black hair and a dirty straw hat. Wears a sleeveless white shirt, is usually seen carrying around a messenger bag containing all his tinkering tools and a ceramic jug full of moonshine . Keeps himself drunk at most times, swears loudly and often and tends to get himself into trouble at the tavern during his free time."
Ragnar Rödhake,"Male human ex-marauder, now town guard"," Large man with long, braided, red hair and a well-kept full beard. Usually seen in his armor walking around town telling people about his past exploits. Slight limp on his left leg due to an injury he sustained in one of his adventures."
Byrone Fjorder,Male Human River Guide/Priest," A priest to the local River god, Byrone is a kind, albeit gruff, soul with oily skin, dark features and a bushy beard. He always gets you where you need to go, but is rarely hired as some of the priests in his religion are known to drown passengers as sacrifices to the river."
Taleros Twinblade,Male Human Mercenary," A young, handsome mercenary who wears gold-dyed plate armor and wields two swords at once. He's a real bravo, but has a caring heart of goldas resplendent as his ridiculous armor beneath it. He's more of an ass-man."
Herra Geralt,Female Half-Elf Noblewoman," Her hair is long, black and thick and is always covering her ears. Her elven heritage is hidden from other nobles at all times and she's ruthless in her efficiency to eliminate anyone who knows her secret. She wears blouses with skin-tight leggings and is seen carrying a stiletto strapped to her thigh wherever she goes."
Muran and Nuran Rockbeard,Male Dwarf Smiths," Muran and Nuran are identical twins and have opened up a weaponsmith and armorsmith across the street from each other. Muran always tells customer's that he's the handsome one and loves to call Nuran an ""old fool"" because he's about 3 minutes older than him. They love to cause mischief and headache for each other and laugh raucously over a beer or ten about it later, but would do anything to protect the other if it was called for."
Tenarus Sinsword,Male Tiefling Extremist," Tenarus travels the lands, making trouble for authority and peasants alike in the name of Tiefling racial superiority. He calls for his brothers and sisters to rise up and reclaim the glory they once had. His antics and actions rarely lead to success, and is often arrested. He always shows up again in another town, raising hell, and nobody knows how he always manages to escape."
Mara Heskan,Female Dragonborn Crusader," Mara is a Paladin of Bahamut, and is actually Biri Bahamin, eldest daughter of the Grand Justicar of a powerful Theocracy. She is on a secret mission to obtain a tome of history pertaining to an ancient cult of Tiamat. She is stoic and serious, but still young and inexperienced. She is sometimes a little ham-handed in keeping her identity straight."
Kar Olodak,Male Tiefling Clothier," Kar Olodak and his sons Belkul and Oti run a clothing store. Kar Olodak wears dirty clothes that he has been working in, he is a hale but boring man, more focused on his work than conversation or customers. Kar plays the lute in the local band, Mithril Maiden."
Darella Runehouse,Female Dwarf Blacksmith," Darella Runehouse, noted for her ability to play the drums and a large birthmark on her neck. She is strong and able, but a little absent-minded when she isn’t working. She has a complex network of connections between local towns that she needs a notebook to keep track of. She is also a member of Mithril Maiden."
Jam Blackwood,Male Goliath Barkeep," A shady, run down bar, the Staggering Spider, is run by an older Goliath names Jam Blackwood. His nose appears to be broken several times over, but he is a strong, but rather uneducated man. Despite his gruff appearance, he is actually great with kids. He also plays the violin for Mithril Maiden."
Wal Axehand,Male Minotaur Baker," Wal Axehand is an eccentric and energetic Minotaur who runs the local bakery. He is tall and incredibly muscular, and despite his intimidating appearance, he goes about his work with a happy smile and a pleasant and jovial demeanor. At night, he dons leather chaps and sings for the local band, Mithril Maiden."
Lora Olyonis,Female Human Entrepreneur," Lora runs the Olyonis Carriage Company, a large, multi-city transport company that makes a living transporting people and goods between cities. She is serious and shrewd, but always fair. Her carriages use advanced defensive technology and spells to conceal and protect them."
Oleg Olegson,Male Human Mayor/Shopkeep," Oleg is a large man, often mistaken for a Goliath in size or Minotaur in hair, but he is incredibly boisterous and kind. He speaks in a thick Russian accent that makes him seem dimwitted and easy to exploit, but he is powerful and intelligent. He lives on the frontier, hoping to rebuild the town of his forefathers that was destroyed in a great war years ago. He always has a business proposal or quest ready for adventurers he considers competent and reliable."
Thangardt,Male Duergar miner," Thangardt is a dark purple skinned duergar with soot-stained brown miners clothing and a pair of magical goggles that hang around his neck when not worn. The goggles are basically x-ray goggles that can see metal through rock (and other materials). He has the intention of using these newly found goggles to establish a new mining company. He is friendly with anyone that he might want something from, and often chooses to avoid those he doesn't need anything from."
Reginald,Male Human Ghost Butler," Reginald is a ghost that haunts an old broken down abandoned mansion on the Rasch estate. The owners of the home have fallen victim to a grizzly murder years ago, and Reginald was also one of the victims. Reginald is completely in denial of that though, and he still acts as the butler (his profession before his demise) and is welcoming of any company that enters the home or grounds. The previous owners, however, aren't as welcoming..."
Vyncis Castow,Male Human Politician," Vyncis has worked his way up the political ladder from being just a clerk in the permits office of the city of Alma. Despite only being about 32, he has made his way onto the city council and is a well liked and respected man in the city. He has jet black hair and usually dresses in Maroon robes. Vyncis has many associates, sometimes that obtain information and goods in less reputable ways that Vyncis would care to admit publicly. He uses subterfuge to obtain what he desires, power."
Bertrand the Bear,Male Bear Hunter," To a degree he is inspired partially by Sir Bearington. Bertrand was a bear that was found abandoned by a dryad named Sylva. He was raised by the dryad and they would converse as he grew up. Sylva taught him the ways of the forest. A group of hunters encountered Bertrand and tried to kill him once. Sylva tried to stop them but ended up being mortally wounded by the hunters. Now Bertrand has an extreme hatred for those that hunt the forest creatures, and he actively hunts the hunters in the woods."
Blackie 'Lefty' Smith,Male Human Blacksmith," Blackie is an albino blacksmith that has no left hand. He is in the business of selling fake/shoddy specialized weapons to adventurers (such as silvered weapons), then collecting those weapons (and all their other loot) from the dungeon/haunted house/other dangerous area that the adventurers bought the weapons for after they have been killed. Sometimes he'll act as a catalyst in these situations by following the adventurers and putting them in a position to die."
Michael Jorin,Male Human Travel Bard," Thikear is the pride of Deln. His wares are sold through the world, and he knows it. He will always remember his own creations no matter the quality. His only goal is to further is own notoriety. Michael travels the known world collecting stories and giving voice to the little known heroes. He is a wanted man for his sexual prowess. Many fathers wish to see him brought down after his dalliances with their daughters."
Jorakus Pide,Male Human Monk/Cleric," Was once destitute and faithless, worked odd jobs, including sewage. On one cleanup, found an octagonal yellow gem that he believes is the eye of the long-dead god, Kraxos. He is now on a one-man mission to restore the faith of this ancient deity. Travels from town to town, preaching his faith."
Ana Englethorn,Female Human Swordmistress," Tall and stately, and widely acknowledged as beautiful, Ana Englethorn is not the image of a warrior one might expect of the Swordmistress of Firthring Keep. Yet her skill at arms is not in question, and the Duke entrusts to her the training of all his soldiers and his children. The Duke knew Ana as an adventurer before he came into his title, and rumours abound that with the passing of his wife the rekindling of a past romantic interest may be in the offing. There is no evidence to support the rumour, but gossip has a life of its own. Ana is actually a song dragon named Anazalgara, a secret of which the Duke is well aware."
Forthright Hooley,Male Human Ombudsman," Forthright likes to tell people that his father believed in openness and honesty, and gave him both a name and a legacy to live up to. He lives in the city-state of [insert name here] where he is appointed ombudsman to the democratically elected council. His job is to see to it that citizens are treated fairly by the council and mediate settlement of any issues. As politicians go he is well-liked and hotly tipped to be appointed to the council itself should he run next term. Forthright claims to have come from elsewhere, but in truth, he is a steel dragon named Farvaskargal."
Gardim Hussal,Male Human Balladeer," The well-meaning if pompous leader of a troupe of travelling entertainers, Gardim is modestly famous for his ballads, although he is past his prime. Once a rogueish ladies man who caused the ladies in his audience to swoon, he is now portly and balding, and of much less interest. He content himself with his art, his troupe, his memories, and much wine. He treats his troupe like family, and when it comes to his family he is generous with both his time and his trust."
Hekkle and Mekkle (real names Horace and Mortimer Fallowfield),Male Halfling Jesters," The two jesters of the Duke of Firthring Keep. Mekkle is cheerful and friendly, the favourite of all the court, especially the Duke's children. Hekkle, on the other hand, is dour of demanour. However, he is only this way because he's deeply unhappy, and all because of his brother. Their mother was cursed while they were still in the womb, and as a result Mekkle was born capable of great cruelty and evil. Hekkle doesn't blame his brother for something that was never his fault, but spends his entire life trying to cover up Mekkle's secret. He is constantly on the watch to prevent his brother's actions, or frantically attempting to either undo or conceal his brother's role in them."
Kellis Synastal,Female Gnome Secretary," Kellis acts as secretary to Forthright Hooley, and greatly admires both the man and his work ethic. She is a very loyal employee, though it does not appear there is any romantic interest there. She has that stereotypical librarian look going on - hair in a bun, spectacles, and slightly frumpy clothing. Behind this unassuming exterior is an extremely keen mind, not to mention a sharp tongue. Kellis has no time to suffer fools, and will not hesitate to show someone the door if she considers them a time waster. She is a formidable gatekeeper that has thwarted many an individual seeking audience with her boss."
Lavisca Lorde (real name Leia Larkin),Female Human Dancer/Spy," Petite, dainty, and stunning, ""Lavisca"" is famed throughout the lands for her graceful and acrobatic dance routines. She travels with the entertainer's troupe of Gardim Hussal, and is without question the primary reason the troupe is so often invited to perform in courts across the continent. The troupe a perfect cover for her true business. She is a freelance spy, taking the opportunity while at court to go where she does not belong and dig into the secrets of the aristocracy. She can sneak around with the best of them, but most often gains entry into private chambers by a simpler method; flirtation."
Manfred Black,Male Half-orc Legal Historian," The circumstances of his birth may have been tragic, and even his poorly chosen name acting as a frank reminder of what he is not, but Manfred grew up determined to make something of himself and be seen as a productive member of society. His keen mind eventually earned the attention of noted historian Berholt Black, who adopted and began educating him. Manfred was particularly keen on the law, its history, and its various manifestations in states around the world. He has achieved his dream, and is now seen as one of the foremost authorities on international law."
Oskar Udyll,Male Human Warrior," Oskar travels with Gardim's troupe, despite having no particular artistic talent. He was brought on board as a guard after the troupe fell victim to banditry. While they know how to handle themselves, Gardim felt that an experienced warrior would do a lot to make the troupe look a less appealing target. He also trains the troupe's members, making them more proficient in defending themselves. Despite the troupe's attempts to make him part of the ""family"", Oskar is by nature taciturn and tends to keep himself to himself. Oskar comes from the Cold North, and complains about weather any warmer than temperate."
Randle Wimms,Male Half-elf Scribe," Randle learned the art of the scribe in a monastery, but did not have the temperament for the life of a monk. After several masdventures he ended up in [insert city name], working as a forger for the Red Hand crime guild. He enjoys the money but not the risk, and is looking for the first opportunity to escape the city with a big bag of cash."
Rodagar Ironthrone,Male Dwarf Lutist," Never satisfied with the life he had back home under the mountains, Rodagar never looked back after he moved away. He found a passion for the arts, and is an extremely proficient musician with great technical ability. Rodagar is part of the band who plays for Lavisca's act, and the first time he ever saw her dance he fell in love."
Gavin Burlester,Male Human Wizard/Wu Jen/Warmage," An aspiring young mage who believes that magic missile is the greatest spell in existence. A passing mage saved his life with one almost as an afterthought (it was his last 1st-level spell slot), but to Gavin it meant the world. He vowed that he would do whatever it took to learn how to cast magic missile (and only magic missile) as much as possible for the rest of his life. He has a younger brother who's a failed necromancer, who looks up to him and is trying to make his own mark as an artificer."
Devin Burlester,Male Human Necromancer/Artificer," Gavin's younger brother who wanted to learn magic like his older brother could do. Unfortunately, the only one available to teach Devin was an old necromancer in the depths of senility, so poor Devin didn't get the best education. While trying to animate a cat skeleton for practice outside a neighboring town one day, a female elf druid caught him in the act. Rather than immediately condemn him for his unnatural behavior, the druid offered him a chance to just drop the whole necromancy thing if he couldn't get the skeleton to animate. He couldn't, and so the druid connected him with the town artificer, who he is now apprenticed to. His early efforts are poor but he shows some promise."
Heaton Thorson,Male Human Figher," An extremely short, bearded fighter with a penchant for alcohol. He often gets confused with a dwarf, which makes him extremely upset. His code of honor is overly long and complicated, with rules such as ""Only fight Goblins with a hammer, never a sword."" Ever since he accidentally burned his family farm down, (""Never kill a rat swarm with anything but fire"") he's been travelling, looking to regain some riches."
Sir Kagrok the Hairy,Male Orc Paladin," The nicest Orc you're likely to meet, as he is deadly determined to prove to you that orcs can be good people. A bit simple-minded and slow, but far from dumb. Holds honour, virtue and above all mercy in the highest regard, and believes orcs are not beyond redemption. Talks in simple but clear terms."
Ketil Brokenose,Male half-elf blacksmith," Been in several too many bar fights. Earns a decent living by shoeing horses; spends a lot of it on ale. An honest and good man, who answers insults with a punch. Regularly donates money to the local temple but never attends sermons; he doesn't want some priest telling him to drink and fight less, and figures a sack of gold every once in a while should keep the gods happy."
Rivik the Fox,Female halfling ranger," Served as a scout in the army during . Called Fox due to her stealth, keen senses, and her bright red hair. Literally left the army; one day she simply packed her things (and a few other people's things, but she left letters of apology) and snuck out of camp to start an adventuring career. Now lives a solitary life of travel and adventuring, living off of hunting and selling animal pelts and finding adventuring work whereever she can."
Teresa Greenreeve the Bastard,Female half-orc bastard daughter and bard," Bastard daughter of Lord Greenreeve and an orc witch. Likes to boast and sing songs about her nobility and the might of House Greenreeve. Very unhappy with her life as a noblewoman, she struck out on her own to become a bard. Teresa makes a living by singing and casting spells at a tavern far away from Castle Greenreeve."
"""Grobby""","Male ""domesticated"" troll farmhand"," A born and bred troll, found by two elven farmer kids when he was a lil' troll. Has a personality not unlike a dog; loves to work and please his masters, who reward him with treats. Very protective of his ""family"", yet doesn't like to kill people. Extremely helpful and kind, Grobby utilizes his strength and size to great effect at the farm."
Tenzai the Lightningmancer,Male tiefling druid-evoker," Tenzai is fascinated by powers of destruction, specifically lightning. He lives in a ramshackle tree hut in a great oak tree in the woods where he studies the sky. Somewhat insane from isolation, his solution to most problems is to zap them with lightning. He is both a druid and an evoker wizard, as well as a brilliant scientist."
One-eye,Female Human Strumpet," Taken from his people at birth by the humans, for they feared this 'exalted child' born of the elves. The elves, to save many sacrificed this one. Tall and hawkish, with a scarred face from years of rebellious actions, he has grown old, the humans who took him long since died of age. He has a photographic memory, he knows what you want, the question is if he cares enough to tell you. Raised in the Daddy-no-daddy orphanage on the outskirts of town One-eye began her life with a name, but since the incident the fuss about that has died down. Now because she's too old for the orphanage and too spoilt for marriage she walks the streets hoping to have a warm place to sleep at night. She has a massive scar through her left eye-socket is medium height with black hair and 'loose clothing', usually hunched a little and has a lilting eerie charisma to her. (I gots 4 holes, which ya want?)"
Yvonne and Erica Strathmoor,Female Human Innkeeper," The Strathmoors are elderly innkeepers in kind of a shady part of town. The two mother/daughter and both advanced in age and nearly indistinguishable. No one, without expending some serious energy, has ever seen the two of them at the same time. They are soft spoken and gentle,, and turn a blind eye to the illegal activities happening within their inn."
Facescar,Male Human Thief," High up on the food chain that is the Daggerford Thieves Guild. Has a scar in the shape of a smiling face, on his face. Speaks with a gravelly voice due to inhaling soot from his youth spent as a chimney sweep. Not above stealing from the poor, but tends to steal from the rich as they have better stuff."
Helga Redeye,Salty Pig," Is somewhat ill-tempered and ugly, but secretly hopes one day a handsome adventurer will look past her physical flaws and love her for her true personality. Her true personality is that of an obstinate pig."
Jennelles Silverstring,Gnome Wizard," A slightly crazy, but incredibly smart wizard who helps the party overcome challenges. However, his strategies are often dangerous, excessively complicated, and almost always involve the polymorph spell. He also builds magic items, though they are always questionably useful or sometimes horribly dangerous to use."
Ronald the Shield Bearer,Male Human Retired Adventurer," A middle-aged possibly older man of a strong build. Ronald is an adventurer of the past generation and went on several heroic adventures. Though retired now he still helps out the adventurers cause. Motivating them with a story of his epic and daring quests, providing a first hand advice on a situation, or even helping defend the group with his signature duel shield style of fighting. If you spot the man carrying two shields ask him for a story he's sure to entertain you with a great one."
Howard Jackal,Male Half-Orc Bandit," Howard Jackal for the most part of his life he has been a bandit. While never being successful or even very deadly he has always been a nuisance. His bandit group named the Jackals has fallen more times than people would care to count, but he always reforms it with young enthusiastic men. It seems that he has a terrible ambition of becoming a bandit of great renown, but instead is more of a figure of bad luck in the region he lives. The greatest feat of banditry the Jackals ever pulled was stealing a merchants wagon and kidnapping the merchant, but he took very little from the wagon and even let the merchant leave with his wagon after a day. As it seems Howard Jackal and his Jackals are just young men wanting the thrill of being bandit. If you ever run into him you are in for a long day, and you might even have a lighter coin-purse"
Spike Jackson,Male Human Frontiersman," Spike Jackson is a man who from a young age decided to head out of the kingdom's main land to live his dream of being a frontiersmen. He grew a rugged beard and became incredible at riling up natives in the unexplored region. His goal on this frontier was to make sure that none of the natives would be in sight. He gave a proposition to every group of native species he met, either leave his king's land or die by his sword. Though remarkably hospitable to non-humans and half-bloods he will work with them if they agree in driving out the native population from the land."
Molly Brevas,Female Human Priestess," Molly Brevas is a teenage girl who comes from the slums of the city. Her parents have forced her to spend most of her time at the local church, so she stays away from the crime ridden slum. The resentful of being made to volunteer she remains there cleaning and learning the faith in the church. Answering all requests made towards her with a sigh she continues what she sees as a boring life working in the church. The positive she sees to her volunteer work is that she probably would not be mugged like in other parts of the slums."
Hlevar Silverton,Male Dwarf Silversmith," Hlevar Silverton is a crafts-dwarf that like the rest of his family before him specialize in crafting with silver. Whether it is an ornate jewelry, or making silver arms and armor. Hlevar and the Silvertons before can make silver become whatever their customer requires. Hlevar himself is a dwarf set in his family tradition and refuses any assistance in his craft and preforms it like all his ancestors before him. The biggest change Hlevar brought to Silverton family was moving to the surface and selling his crafts more openly than his family before."
Fatts Corkin,Male Halfling Millionaire," A bitter, old, corpulent halfling worth his weight in gold. Fatts has a stranglehold on the town or village where he lives. He secretly controls the government with his sizable monetary reserves. He talks like Pigma from Starfox 64. EDIT: 9 more coming later."
"Keruntilogrivex ""Runt""","Male goblin peddler, spy, thief"," Runt is an aggressively friendly and obsequious traveling goblin merchant. He never travels anywhere without his crammed wagon of merchandise. He has worked long and hard to earn the trust necessary to establish a sales route along the towns and homesteads of the frontier. Along with his legitimate business he operates as the hub of a ring of smugglers and thieves. He's not above murder or thievery, but he chooses his victims very carefully, and hides their bodies even more carefully. As far as anyone can tell, he's just an honest peddler making an honest buck selling honest merchandise."
Raina,Female Elf Bard," Braided long auburn hair, blue eyes, tall and lean, no markings or piercings. Patient with the party to some extent, generally pleasant but ultimately has a hard time fully trusting the group with her needs. Wants to travel the world and capture stories. Is third in line for the elven throne, but has an older brother who she dotes on. He is generally much more sheltered and oblivious. Doesn't drink, doesn't stay up late, doesn't go out much in the evenings, but will accompany the party if asked. Has a soft spot for old people, including old dwarves."
Urin,Male Dwarf Merchant," A horribly ugly, yet incredibly cheerful dwarf. Urin has ties to most major factions and a surprising amount of minor factions throughout the lands he travels. He has a thing for Half-Elves, is incredibly clueless when it comes to the significance of his products, (once mistaking an abstract representation of Orcus for an Amulet of Bahamut) and doesn't seem to have much business sense. Oftentimes he'll show his wares in small, poor villages that couldn't hope to afford any of his magic rarities, leading many to wonder if he even needs the coin."
Aedonel Redcloak,Male Elf Wizard," An arrogant elven wizard who wishes to demonstrate his arcane prowess to any willing to listen or watch. He travels the world as a performer and mercenary. He doesn't enjoy fighting, but he does covet wealth and arcane power. He is liable to attempt contests of skill with other visibly skilled spellcasters."
Omnibus Omberstien,Female Human Knight," A noble human knight who serves her liege-lord loyally, and often preemptively. She is liable to hunt down potential trouble before it even becomes trouble. This has been known to lead to both accolades and condemnation from the nobility, but her liege-lord has tolerated it so far. She is mildly famous in her home region."
Zonia Ironmoss,Female Dwarven Cleric," A disgraced Tempest cleric who is seeking to regain her lost honor. She is focused and strong-willed, but lacks confidence during critical moments. She misses her family, and thinks the only way to see them again is to fix the mistakes she made, or make up for them."
"Miss ""Manticore"" Milesley",Female Halfling Rogue," A notorious halfling thief, she is known for both her peppy, friendly demeanor, and her propensity for effective, brutal violence. She uses a dagger and combat, and always seems to have another up her sleeve. She is wanted in several cites, but definitely has no trouble finding more people to rob."
John Anderson,Male Human Guard," A relaxed town guard in a small rural town, Anderson is less interested in hunting evil than simply keeping the peace. He is a family man who simply doesn't want any trouble for his town, and is willing to tolerate adventurer-types as long as they spend their gold without causing problems."
Urth,Male Goblin Sorcerer," Garth's elder brother, Urth is a rare Goblin with political ambition. He may be a petty warlord now, but he is clever and charismatic, and seeks to unite all goblinoids under a single banner, to crush the humanoid races and loot their treasures."
Garth,Male Goblin Rogue," Urth's younger brother, what Garth lacks in charisma, he makes up for in sadism. As Urth's right-hand man, he does much of the head-kicking necessary to keep a goblin horde in line. He is feared by all local goblins, and more than a few local humanoids."
Janus Timley,Male Half-Orc Barbarian Mobster," Janus is usually a ruthless, efficient, terribly refined mob boss. He puts on airs, and refuses all but the finest in food, wine, and women. He also hides something terrible. The eye of Gruumsh has looked long and hard upon this Half-Orc, leading him to fly into terrifying rages if the wrong buttons are pushed (his heritage, for one thing). He carries a cane, which he uses as a greatclub when he rages."
Sharaa Silversword,Female Half-Elf Ranger (Lycanthrope)," Silversword is a famed hunter of monsters whose prowess is famous to local villages and woodsmen. However, she hides the fact that many of her narrow victories are as a result of her lycanthropic curse. The enhanced strength and speed come in handy when fighting the monsters of the forest alone, but she has claimed a terrible number of victims on the way. She wishes she could be cured, but fears for her life too much to mention it to anyone."
Percival Aberdeen The Third,Male Gnome War Cleric," Percival hails from a jolly family of gnomish inventors, who he is violently embarrassed by. To him, the greatest joy is to be found on the battlefield, the home of true invention and uncertainty. He is not well known by many (he has left his home far behind), but seeks the thrill of fair contests of warfare wherever he can find it."
Skrillex the Enchanter,Male Gnome Enchanter," A kindly elder has a bald head with a long white beard, he's old, hunched, the works. He is a simple enchanter, often granting +1 bonuses or elemental type bonuses to travelers and adventurers. He has nothing to do with Skrillex (the musician) from our world. He gets frustrated anytime adventurers ask him if he ""drops the bass"" or ""enchants people's soul with sound"" or other such crap. Often, he'll hike his enchanting prices for people who ask such idiotic questions."
Seran Misherral,Female Elven Commander/Bard," A young slender figure with fair skin and blond hair (as most elves tend to be). She started her life as a bard, traveling from city to city spreading cheer and learning all kinds of valuable information. During  she was drafted into the military and lead into combat. Using clever magic and penchant for inspiring troops, she was able to lead a lost and recently leaderless squad fight it's way from behind enemy lines. Quickly she was promoted to real ranks of leadership, of which she rose higher soon enough. As it turns out, being a clever bard is incredibly useful in war-time. You know all kinds of ""useless"" trivia about your enemy, you better knowing how to think like them, and you have a plethora of unexpected magic tricks up your sleeves."
Richard Gavel,Male Half-elf Carpenter," Richard is a younger male working the carpentry trade. He always carries a small red gem shard of some sort. He claims to not carry it for any particular reason, he just thinks it looks kinda cool so he keeps it with him. The one time it got stolen from him, he was kinda miffed, but not particularly upset. It was anonymously returned to him when the would-be thief discovered the gem lacked any real value."
Mackrel Crackle,Male Halfling Chef, Mackrel is a simple chef who likes to pick up exotic spices from traveling adventurers. He offers discounted lodging and food prices for anyone who brings him spices.
Bruthias Wainwright,Male Human Playboy, A rich business owner who spends his days partying around with beautiful women. He spends his nights sleeping in his mansion.
Regand Algeer,Male Gnome Trapper," A hunter-trapper who, strangely, wears regal clothing even while out hunting. His regal hunter clothes are more muted colors, but still brighter than you'd expect of a hunter."
Captain Ger'Kro Mysl'gat,Male Elf Sailor," A young elf in his early hundreds. He was abused and called ""old man"" by his previous captain and crew. One night, when they stepped off the ship, he used crew supplies and money to hire a crew of his own and set sail. He now goes from city to city hosting ""dock parties"" whereupon citizens enter the ship to enjoy a good party."
Relic,Male Teifling Guard," Relic works dangerous night patrols, typically preferring to walk the city outer walls or traverse the more shady parts of town. No one knows why he goes by the name 'Relic' and he prefers not to share his real name (though he has admitted to having a different true name than 'Relic'). Locals are familiar and comfortable with Relic's teifling heritage."
Enpy Seenaim,Male Gnome Potionmaster," He is a lone salesmen stationed on standard travel paths. He crafts all sorts of useful potions to be sold to adventurers. He lies about every tenth potion or so, completely fabricating the use and ability as he sells the potion."
Damion Fireheart,Male Human Bartender," A retired adventurer, he opened up his own tavern/Inn, the Knife Tip Inn. Stays fit by fighting in the local arena, may be champion there. Motto is ""Fight, Drink, Sleep"" His surname comes from an old legend his family could preform fire magic without being spellcasters (which may or may not be true)."
Gopnik Foulstain,Male Half-Orc Sewer Worker," Pleasant in demeanor, if not in odour, Gopnik might be the only person keeping the sewer system in Pipe's End from overflowing and fouling up the town. If only there were more strangely long-lived half-orcs with two centuries of plumbing expertise bumping about the sewers."
Felegon Blade-of-Dew,Male Eladrin Mercenary," You offer Felegon a place by the fire, but he politely smiles and puts up his hand to refuse. As you inspect the coat, you realize that it isn't drenched in rain; an elaborate illusion makes it constantly appear slick with water. There is a practiced reserve to this seemingly young Eladrin, and you wonder what other illusions he maintains."
Hipto Syliloke,Male Gnome Underboss," Hipto giggles, as gnomes are wont to do, but in an unexpectedly gruff tone for one his size. In many ways, Hipto appears to be more dwarven than gnomish, covered in dense fat and coarse hair. His sharp, Feyish features betray his true nature. He tells you he knows where to find your lost companions, but it'll be a hefty fee: Hipto trades only in rare Gnomish artifacts."
Chainmaker,Agender Tiefling Vigilante," Nobody took the child seriously, not until they started donning a mask and righting wrongs in the town of Revenant Bay. Chainmaker barely acknowledges your presence, never breaking their solemn vigil. You see their back tense ever so slightly in anticipation as you reveal details about the job. In spite of the somber disguise, there is no masking the reckless enthusiasm of youth."
Eva Slick,Female Changeling Informant," There is only one way to recognize Eva Slick - a secret known only to those she trusts most closely. Somewhere in her disguises is a small mark of the god Pelor, to whom she has devoted her life after being reformed. You knew her before she was locked up in the Solar Redoubt, and wonder what happened to rob her voice of its original luster and melody."
Hansa Vel,Female Human Courtesan," She is not happy to see you here, let alone alive. Like a crimson star, Hansa rose from the alleyways of Karkenbad and into the bedchambers of its Crown Prince, climbing atop the bodies of her closest friends. You would not come to her if it was not completely necessary; there is no better assurance of that fact than the dearth of evidence you have assembled to blackmail her with."
Yoldin Pippernock III,Male Halfling Gentleman Farmer," He saunters over to you, his entire body rolling and undulating. You could swear that, were it not for the hand he kept tight against his belly, Yoldin would simply burst in an eruption of jelly. Grasping his little, sausage fingers in an all-too-wet handshake, the master of Pippernock farms leads you through his famous plantation. The workers defer to this impossibly rotund man, and yet behind the smiles and courtesies is a wasting hunger, fixed pointedly on Yoldin's wrinkled, scrunched-up face."
Felt the Dog,Female Half-Elf Beggar," Nobody seems to remember a time before Felt was Felt. She stumbled into the village, eyes fixed open in a permanent, vacant stare, and began barking and shouting odd, short phrases - things like squirrel, fetch, and bone. Henceforth, she was Felt the Dog, good only for begging and the cruel amusement of others. When she places a paper with the word ""HELP"" messily scrawled upon it, you look back at her, only to recognize for the first time the alarm in her nearly empty eyes."
Ennarius Belechonia,Male Elf (Rakshasa) Gentleman," For a gentleman, Ennarius seems to have an oddly difficult time manipulating cutlery and working doorknobs. Regardless, you cannot help but feel warm and alive in his presence - generous, kind, and altogether lovely chap. Only time you've seen him thrown off kilter is when someone mentions his income, which is a closely guarded secret. He only ever mentions the mines he operates, for which he recruits when in town."
Rosaria Bone-Break-Crunch,Female Minotaur Scholar," A man walks into the library, and minutes later comes running out, screaming. You ready your sword and burst in, to find a massive, bull-headed woman sitting quietly, flipping through the pages of a book. She looks at your sword and rolls her eyes, droning out her monotone welcome speech for those visiting the Greenlake Academy."
Leona Fleetskin,"Female, Changeling, Prostitute"," Well, here's my contribution! Might not be the best, but these are all off the top of my head so keep that in mind when you giggle at them. More Barbarian than Wizard, Krug has only the slightest touch of magic about him but desperately seeks to associate himself with civilized Wizards and Sorcerers. He travels from place to place telling fortunes for a pittance. He does this by gargling a bag of runes covered in Draconic script and spitting them one by one into a bowl then reading the future based on the way they land. These fortunes are very specific but usually about totally insignificant things like the hair colour of the next person you're going to meet or how many trees you'll see tomorrow. A handsome and charming middle aged man. Lon jokes that he obtained his name due to the combination of his dark complexion and good luck in games of chance. In reality he uses several enchanted items of clothing and jewellery to draw in and swindle the patrons of small town taverns, big city bars and everywhere in between. A 16 year old Changeling girl making the most out of her natural shape changing abilities and avoiding the mistrust most people have of her people. Leona has set herself up in the identity of a powerful Sorceress fallen on hard times. Using her ""magic"" to take the form of anyone her customers bring a detailed enough picture of/introduce her to. A massive step up from her humble beginnings as a street urchin Leona is enjoying the status her money has brought her and spends recklessly on anything shiny and pretty enough. However, despite this shallowness she secretly donates large sums to the church she and the other homeless children used to sleep in during the harsh winters."
Jzarkey Padfoot,Male Catfolk Shop Owner," A short catfolk with a tail as long as his body. Fully prehensile and capable of lifting as much as his arms. Catnip addict, but it isn't obvious. He's willing to barter his wares for catnip if the PCs figure out that he's got a substance abuse problem. Has a collection of magical balls of yarn. Sells survival supplies like a ranger or rogue would use, including traps. He's got a basement in his shop that's protected by the very traps he sells."
Scoggin Longmore,Male Satyr Musician/Bard," Travels from town to town. He is a lore expert about most everything though it wouldn't seem like it to look at him. He's introverted, except when it's performance time. He sings songs about things that couldn't possibly have happened though a sense motive check shows he's usually telling the truth. Has a magical set of panpipes. He runs at the first sign of trouble."
Dr. Aveneros Charles Ula,Male Eladrin Vampire Magus," He's an avid art collector and despite being a total recluse, cannot resist following up on rumors of new artwork in town. He's charming, well-dressed, and aristocratic. Not the least bit pretentious. His appearance does not suggest that he's a vampire. Once a year, he hosts a gala for the territory's elite in order to show off his collection. He sometimes considers strange and rare creatures for his collection. He's on a 123-year mission to bring his wife back from permanent death. His castle contains an immense library of knowledge about the planes."
Callidus The Bold,Male Human Wizard," Callidus created an underground sanctuary for a group of people needing to escape a cataclysmic event several millennia ago. He had planned on only needing to use the sanctuary for 20 years, but was instead locked away by his own mistake for much longer. He's gone cookoo crazy and is only alive because of a ring of sustenance and a time dilation spell cast on the sanctuary. He has a hard time believing that the outside is safe but is willing to help the players with anything they want if they successfully convince him to leave."
Jarrell Blacksteel,Male Human Blacksmith," A gruff blacksmith, married to a sorceress. He is often found gnawing on strips of metal and has a somewhat arrogant demeanor. Once you get to know him he can be quite likeable, even though he is supremely confident in his blacksmithing skills to the point of annoyance to others."
Mariel Blacksteel,Female Human Enchantress," Married to a blacksmith named Jarrell, she handles the enchanting part of the business. Very friendly and charming, she makes sure her customers don't get turned away by her husband's attitude. Her favorite part of the job is testing young sorcerers by selling them magical items they can't quite handle yet to see what happens. Sometimes the results are disastrous, but she doesn't seem to mind."
Charles du Fromage,Human Male Innkeeper/Ex-Adventurer," A jolly fellow who has opened a tavern called the Laughing Pancake after retiring. He is friendly and open (on the surface, at least) and serves the house special, pancakes, every morning. To get some extra money in his pocket and excitement in his life he has become an information dealer on the side."
Trinkle,Gnome Male Wizard," A timid and socially awkward gnome who was being tutored by the owner of a magical item shop. His teacher has since disappeared, leaving him to fend for himself and the shop, now aptly named 'Trinkle's Trinkets'. He tries to keep things running on pure enthusiasm."
Lord Vaskeron,Half-elf Male Noble," He had a pampered childhood, but it didn't last very long. After his family fell from grace he worked long and hard to get back where he belongs. Nowadays he is an influential man and he and his family are back to their old status. He is very much concerned with appearances. Occasionally, he performs a 'good deed', but he does those things for acknowledgement and attention only, not out of the goodness of his heart. He enjoys parties and spicy sausages."
Anastasia,Dhampir Female Adventurer," Obsessed by knowledge, she has gone to great lengths to acquire ancient relics and artifacts. She will hire fellow adventurers to help her get what she wants, and discard them once she is done, unless they are genuinely interesting people (in her eyes). Few academics rival her practical knowledge on matters dungeoneering-related and she can take care of herself in a pinch."
Boyd Bellamew,Male Human Bowyer," Boisterous and bold, he's a hard working bow maker. A bigger fellow, his belly bounces with laughter at his own crass humor. Runs a shop, called ""Boyd Bellamew's Bow-building Barn""."
Sigre Copper,Male Dwarf Bartender," Stocky barkeep at the ""Miner's Fortune"", a gambling den frequented by local miners. Prefers his brewing to talking to people. Once you ask about his craft, you can't shut him up."
Brienne Aryn,Female Human Miner," Strong build, calloused hands, she's the head of Silverkeep Mining Ltd. Her sharp eyes and sharper tongue balance her otherwise nondescript face. Has a troubled relationship with her sister, Reini."
Marcus Strong-arm,Male Human Bodyguard (retired)," Worked for a traveling merchant to protect his spice caravan until a dragon decided his standard diet lacked flavor. Took a chunk of shrapnel to the back of the leg and hasn't been able to walk right since. In his 60s, with shock-white hair and a blunt attitude. Just because he can't beat you in a fight anymore doesn't mean he won't try."
Biddi Hilltopple,Female Halfling Secretary," Small (even for a halfling) with short blonde hair. Her job takes her away from the grassy hills and outdoors she prefers, so she resents her job. As a secretary, she's less like Pam from The Office and more like someone at the DMV; she isn't paid enough to care. Brief description of their appearance, personality, and quirks (about 4 sentences is enough)."
Roren Brightborn,Male Dwarf Cleric, A righteous dwarf with a gnarled appearance. He has a sparse and scraggly beard that reek of rotten pork. He is quick to lend a helping hand but fails to aid in any meaningful way because of his incompetence.
Tancreed; Knight of the First Queen,Male Human Paladin," He wears a wide brimmed hat with a large crimson plume, sports a tightly curled mustache, and carries a that ends with three points. When he speaks he often pinches the ends of his mustache, smirking with only one side of his mouth. He is Lawful Neutral, and showers praise and even gifts upon those that uphold the same reverence for the law and justice."
Ulfina Pembergallow,Female Half-Dwarf-Half-Gnome Rogue/Merchant, Ulfina is shunned by the gnomes for having stone bones and a reckless attitude but despised by the dwarves for looking and sounding too much like a gnome. She has learned to deal with this but forsaking both heritages and staging as a perpetually teenage human girl who is sly as a fox and wise beyond her years.
Corina; The Silken Mage,Female Elf Mage, Mistress of knowledge and horrible forgetfulness. She has mastery knowledge of most scholarly pursuits but has trouble forming lasting short term memories ever since 5 years ago during an alchemical incident with an apprentice.
Leivivik De'Ma,Male Human Wizard, This uptight wizard with a scar on his cheek is followed by three apprentices. One of the apprentices will try to keep speaking over Leivivik. This angers Leivivik and he has no hesitation to beat him in public for it. Leivivik will also snap at anyone who talks down to him.
Rass Honskeller,Male Human Wanderer, A friendly traveler who has seen many lands Fights with spell and sword when provoked Searches for truths in a web of lies that led to the demise of his friends Little does he know that he was but a pawn in anothers game.
Astor Rilem,Male Human Shock Jockey," The mage of cheap tricks and an ace up his sleeve Rilem is never caught off guard Hunts for anything connected to the long lost city of Sentinum, The City of Secrets where he was ""Born"" His shocking good looks and silver tongue get him out of trouble every time He flees open confrontation but is effective when it comes to combat thanks to his preparedness"
Vess Bantey,Female Human Scoundrel," More man than Hugo the Beast yet uses trickery and guile at every step Enjoys boasting about her dueling prowess by taking on multiple foes (Traps are still fair, right?) Occasionally hunts for artifacts that hold long forgotten secrets Searching for a lost lover who she fears is dead"
Matches,Male Human (age mid 30's) Village Idiot," HO! HI! I'm Matches! When I grow up I'm going to be a Monster! Topaz the pretty lady is my friend! She works at The Stiff One, but I'm not allowed in there. When I grow up I'm going to be a Monster!"
Bartenderson,Male Human(?) Bartender/mayor/manager," Human(?) with black greased hair and a 1940s-esque radio announcer voice. He appears to be in his mid to late 30s. Has a habit of arriving before the party at the first Inn they enter ready to serve drinks and news of whatever strange goings on in the region. He always has some sort of work for the party with a cut of the pay of course for all the legwork he does. Speaking of legwork, no one has ever confirmed to have seen Bartenderson's legs. They are always either behind the bar or some convenient furniture yet no one ever comments on this fact until after leaving the bar and by then it would be embarrassing to ask about it."
Radolf Hiln,Theives' Cant," Radolf is a Human Preist of insert appropriate deity. He is jovial, plump, and his brown wavy hair is balding in the center of his head. He doesn't try to hide it. He is the very epitome of someone unassuming."
Kingsley,male tiefling wanderer," He is very socially awkward and talks as though he's a nobleman from a long time ago. In actuality he was a king right at the end of the tiefling empire who disappeard just before the empire collapsed. An adapt magic user his power was heavily coveted until he was sealed away by jealous rebels. For centuries he was locked away in a long forgotten tomb until recently when a naive magic initiate tried to form a warlock pact with him, freeing him in the process. He now travels from place to place in disguise with his protege attempting to rebuild the might of his lost empire."
Sam McHale,oomph," On the day she left, she took Sam aside and said something he'll remember forever: ""Hail Hydra"" ""When you're done in the dirt, come find me in the clouds."" And ever since, Sam has fervently desired to fly, frequenting his father's workshop as he tries to put together any apparatus that will take him off the ground."
Hanz Irongate,Male. Human. Guard," Hanz is by no means a small man. At around six and a half feet tall and weighing 235 pounds, he looms over all those who pass by his station. He is a patriot, to a fault. The government is completely infallible in his eyes. By nature, he is a calm man. His life is quiet since the wars ended. He goes home to his wife every night, and only rarely heads to the tavern with his fellow guardsmen after their shift. He earned the name irongate when he and the 25 men under his control held the city gate against an entire warband of goblins. This decorated war hero refused to take a place among the cities elite, choosing instead to continue protecting his portcullis."
Kilroy Fitzpatrick,exactly," Kilroy will give you a hefty discount, but the discounted item is cursed. Whenever a player uses the cursed item, the DM may roll a d20. On a 1, the DM rolls on the Sorcerer's Wild Magic table to determine a random effect. Depending on player group personality, cursed items may actually be priced up."
Loren,Middle aged male farmer," An alcoholic, Sleds has worked on a steadily less and less impressive list of ships. Currently unemployed after being put to shore by his last crew for excessive drunkenness while on duty, he's in whatever port city you choose unwillingly. Not a penny to his name, but somehow finds a way to come up with enough cash for the next drink. Got his name after a drunken dare led him to take a ride down the main street on an empty cask of beer during a particularly muddy and rainy night. He wound up losing control rather predictably and smashed into a patrol of the town guard. Two guardsmen wound up with broken bones and he earned himself a week in a jail cell. The name stuck. Loren is a bitter man who looks older than his 45 years. A sour personality brought on in part by a lifelong grudge against his parents for giving him what he feels is a woman's name, he holds a grudge against his wife as well who named his daughter after him when she gave birth while he was in town on an errand. Very much a beta, he's the type to grumble to himself and talk a big game, but when it comes to confrontation he's the first to back down and cower. With only a few stained teeth to his name, he chews tobacco or whatever similar thing exists in your world, but would never touch alcohol and judges those who do rather harshly--but quietly and privately."
Phill Burgimond,male human accountant," Phill has a black combover and a plaid shirt with wooden buttons. His favorite pants are his brown cotton ones because he can slip and you can't see the mud on them too much. Phill is the accountant of the Oak and Willow bank. He kind of hates his job, but stays there because it has a good retirement plan and good dental. Phill doesn't know how to use swords, or bows. His magic is in advanced algebra and financial math."
Willow harpspear,female elf Shepard," Willow has dirty blond hair, and tan skin. She wears a potato sack dress and shoes made of sheep skin. They're actually really comfortable She like being a Shepard. Her sheep are either named William or Wendy, depending on sex. Willows favorite food is Shepard pie. It's just normal pie that she made."
Rachelle Tompus,female gnome story teller," Rachelle has long, braided gray hair. Her face is covered in laugh lines and wrinkles. Her eyes distant and pale. She used to adventure. Plunder dungeons and caves, slay dragons and feral creatures. She went with her husband, Bargus Tompus. Bargus was a dwarf that had met her while helping her explore a cave rumored to have undead lurking. After many years, Bargus died to infection and disease after being ambushed by many many hobgoblins. After his passing, Rachelle retired, selling magical gear and trinkets she had collected over time. She keeps her husbands sword in his memory. She now tells stories of her adventures to those willing to hear."
Sigmund Heartkeeper,male elf guard," Sigmund is short for elves. He keeps his hair very short, and his clothes simple and modest. He is quiet, but when talking, is loud and brash, and is not afraid to speak up for himself or his friends. He is guard for the city of elves. Another face in the crowd in the watch tower. While proficient in most weapons, he prefers the longbow. He is able to keep his head in battle, and often is looked at as a leader by his comrades. It is true that he is quite capable of leading, but has no intention to unless assigned to be. He does what he's told, and gets his work done."
Marren Oakenshield,male dwarf ghost hunter," A long brown beard and mustache are the only hair on his face, a flowing chain male suit covers his torso. With a backpacked lined with potions and tools, and a great sword of ghost touch marren isn't afraid to walk into any haunted house or a abandoned catacomb. Being finicky for details, he is careful to look for traps, and make sure anything he does is done well. Along with his great sword, marren is armed to the teeth with daggers, maces, hammers, throwing knives, darts, a short bow, and even small spitting needles in case precision is needed or he can't use his hands."
Catherine,female drow thief," Abandoned as a child, Catherine knows nothing of her parents or last name. Simply that the dress she possessed had the name ""Catherine"" sewn into the collar. Catherine grew up on the streets of the overland. She was often bullied, being the only drow around. She didn't put up with it though, plotting revenge. She was careful in her spite, and figured the best way to get back at her bullies would be to turn them against each other. She would ""relocate"" things. Things that would go mostly unnoticed, and turn up in places they would be found. Her craft eventually wound her up in jail, where she would talk with other inmates. She learned the craft of lock picking, and her own natural ingenuity and perhaps a lack of self control led her to breaking out. Word got around. Mainly amongst other thrives and criminals. Her skillfully quick and careful hands managed to attract employers. Not soon after, she found herself working for the thieves guild. Working her way up in the ranks, she is determined to one day get into a position of great power, but she's not quite there yet."
Carolyn Fissure,Female half orc tavern fighter," Carolyn was raised with pink fleshies, but that did not deter her from the life style of a bar fighter. She used to puts bets on herself and fights for the coin. After word got around about her strength and ability to keep liquor down, she got a manager in a boxingesque job. Tons of other fighters come around to throw fists in bars, and so far, she can brag king and queen, beating any challenger of any race that has come her way. Her strength is help, but her wit backs it up tenfold. From using bottles to trip opponents to ripping off loin clothes and slamming them in their embarrassment. Carolyn fights dirty, and effectively, making her a dangerous opponent. Carolyn wears modest leather gear, a necklace of her opponents lots teeth, and a red flower in her braided hair"
Jeremy Tash,Male Tiefling shop keeper," Jeremy wears a green apron when he's working, and is often found with a necklace with a red glass eye connected to it. The eye is actually supposed to be the eye of a demon, but it's really just a neat looking marble he found. When he's not helping a customer at the shop, he is usually playing cards with his brother, Tijiak. When off the clock, Jeremy is usually getting stoned behind the old windmill Jeremy's horns are ram like, spiraling backwards. He has had a little golden tip made for them, and refers to them as his ""bling"" He also often nuzzles his horn against a girl, and asks if she's getting ""horny"" with him. Jeremy is everything a stereotypical stoner teen is."
Marry Lined,Female elf Lich," Marry isn't actually evil. She became a lich as a promise, to guard the temple of Ehlonna (or whatever nature god you may have to suit your campaign). She made the promise to her dad, his dying wishes to be for her, and her next of kin, to watch over the temple. The only problem that Marry faced, was that she was infertile. In a fit of hysteria, Marry began to research necrotic arcana in order to build her phylactery; a small statue of Ehlonna made of gold, deep inside the temple. She has only recently died, her skin is still fairly neat and her eyes not rotten away too much. At first glance, she may even appear normal. She plans to keep herself looking as close to alive as possible, and may go to great lengths to keep up with appearances in order to maintain an inviting presence"
Thomas Ragar,Male human Sorcerer," Tommy is actually 7. Despite the fact that Tommy is 7, he can somehow conjure spells like ""Waves of exhaustion"" and ""Symbol of fear"" (Or whatever high level necromancy spells your edition has). It's strange enough that a 7 year old has the power of champions, but the fact that he can also preform necromatic arts has run his family out of town. He has yet to raise a human, but he spends a strange amount of time around the corpses of dead vermin..."
Drachog - The Sword of Maglubiet,Hobgoblin Paladin (Dark Knight) of Maglubiet," He has united the clans of his people, and now wages a holy war against the civilised lands. Maglubiet has blessed him. In the blood of a thousand sacrifices to this most dark god, Drachog was blessed to never truly die. He wields the Sword of the Ukeldun, a wickedly sharp greatsword and blade of the last blessed of Maglubiet. He is swift to anger, a strong and eloquent speak."
The Old Man,"Seems to be an old male human, Swordsman, Bard, Adventurer, Mysterious Figure"," No one is entirely sure who he is, but stories of his presence at some of the greatest events history are common. He is recognised by an old sword in a battered scabbard, a patchwork cloak, and a fine gold leaf harp. He will disappear as quickly as he coming, usually offering cryptic advise, or a song before doing so."
Mistress Martilude Quin,"Old Female, Merchant, Scholar, Entrepreneur"," A woman who has risen from nothing. A simple scholar in geology she used her knowledge of minerals and stones to make her merchant empire. She has little interest in politics, but does care for the working people of the city and kingdom. She has little time for the lazy, and no time for those who will not seek to help others. She is not attractive."
Rund Oxbeard,"Dwarf Male, Paladin of Dorf (God of Drink and Celebration)"," Rund wields the might Keghammer, a two handed warhammer, with a vial of Dorf's own ale in the centre. Runds holy quest is to find a Tankard of Everpour, a magical artefact that will pour eternally any non magical drink, from water to fine ale. Once he finds this most sacred artefact, he will set up a Temple Inn to his God, where the finest drink will be served, the greatest tales told. Rund is a strong fighter, his brown beard will groomed. He is armoured in fine plate, that tells tales of Dorf's clerics and champions. Rund has a fear of spiders."
Vola Redshanks,"Female Half-Orc, 2nd in command of the Wandering Blades, Deadly fighter"," She is the keeper of the coin chest for this mercenary band. He twin swords are always at her side, and she is quick to use them. She is garbed in leathers, with dyed red chaps. She got the name after two sunrises of fighting in the place that would come to be known as the bloody past. Her dark green skin, is scarred heavily, and covered in many elegant and crude tattoos. She has luscious black hair that she takes a secret pride in. She is a woman of business when needed, but once she is off duty she will drink, gamble, and brawl with the best of them."
Gormund Arkunsu or Gormund Silverskin,Male Silver Dragonborn Ranger," He came to the far reaches of the north many years ago. He now rangers the mountains, forests and ice wastes of this harsh land. He has taken the cold into his blood. He wears a fine snowbear cloak, that makes him near invisible in the snow. He wields a self crafted longbow, and carries a variety of different arrows depending on the hunt. He runs a tannery and game shop, and offers to guide and teach those who can pay the price. He never drinks, or spends his time in Inns. He enjoys the company of others and is eager to share tales. He has a voice in his head, Icefang, who sometimes whispers for him to do dark and horrible things. He has been able to ignore it for now."
Brunswick Ramsbottom the Great All Might Archivist,Old male human and long suffering archivist for the Honourable Order of Mappers," Brunswicks title was given to him by the head of his order, Bree Greenbottle and female halfling. He is a lover of detail and order, and fines nothing better in taking the mad drawings and finds of the order and categorising them and adding them to the guilds massive collection. He wears simple trousers and shirt, with a belt covered in pouches for inks, parchment, and all thing cartographical. He loves children, and has a large family with many children and grandchildren of his own. He is very serious when working. He used to have a gambling problem."
King Dosilion,"Half Elf, born royalty, negotiator and jouster."," He has the best of elven and human looks. Fine delicate features, with the hint of masculine brawn, and thick golden hair and beard. He is a homosexual but has a wife and born children as is his duty, to his line, his kingdom and his people. He is loyal to his wife, who knows he is gay, and has never slept with anyone else since they were wed. He enjoys the fine sport of jousting, and travels to many kingdoms to negotiate trade deals and take part in tourneys. He is quick to decide a course of action, and is hard to be swayed from it. He loves beauty and art."
El Mortson,"Young female human, daugther of a successful woodsman and lumber merchant"," El wishes she had been born a boy. She is stronger, faster, and taller then any other boy in her town, but because she is a girl she can't do what she wants. She wants to be a lumberjack, a woodswoman, and eventually take over her fathers buisness. She secretly goes out and cuts down trees, and tends the woods when she can. She stands at over six feet tall, and is very very strong. she has mouse brown hair, and a pretty face. Her father wants her to become a lady. She has run away from schools and teachers of this five times. She has a fear of Goblins, after a near death experience with a raiding party that did kill her mother."
"Shar God of Murder, The Cruel Bastard, Bringer of Tears","Neutral Evil Deity, spawn of the Demon King Asmodeus"," Shar rarely shows himself, preffering to cloak himself in the darkness between stars if he takes a physical form. He is the son of Asmodeus after he raped and later killed a god of peace in the last astral war. Shar was cut from his dying mothers womb and thrown into the darkest reaches of Asmodeus' domain. Here he grew, and began to tred the mortal realms, bringing assassins, poisoners, those who cloak themselves in evil deeds, to his message. He blessed them, and as he gained more followers he grew stronger. He find glory in the elegance of the cold kill, and hungers for wealth and power. He has many hidden shrines scattered across the realms of all peoples. He does not hate Asmodeus, he hates nothing, but will do all he can to grow in power."
Dr. T'risza Desek,Female Drow Thief," She has short figure with long white hair. She misses the rest of her family, that was either exiled or imprisoned. She lives in Thieves' District (or Thieves' Guild) in a building that looks half blown up and uninhabited for at least last 20 years. She loves running on top of rooftops at night alone."
M.I.K.,Sexless Warforged Guard," He can't fit between ordinary people with his cold mechanical voice, and so he doesn't even try anymore. Often he prefers to observe situation unless called, and sometimes he even pretends to have no consciousness. His armor is magitech armor, that helps him with moving stealthily, perception at night and in fights. If he's submerged into water, or in an area where the magic doesn't work, he's unconscious."
Finom Lackman,Male Human Merchant," There's nothing special about his appearance, but there's a dark secret beneath it. He wants to sell his goods as quickly as possible, because he's been cursed. Anything he sells rots a short while afterwards. That's why he gets so easily into problems, and he's used to it."
"Galadir, the Foremost Bureaucraft of (Insert City Name here)",Male High Elf Bureaucraft," He mans his desk as if it was a bunker. No one goes in our out of the keep without first going through him, and filling out various forms in triplicate. He looks down on anyone who take shortcuts when filling out said forms. It is very rare for someone to get through Galadir without first spending hours going through the bureaucratic mess that he has created to get anything done within his city."
Scabs the Wizard,Male Elven Beggar," Forgotten most of his spells at the ripe age of 750. Brings an iron pot with him everywhere to cook with. Was once on a search for lichdom and domination His age and senile behavior makes him harmless, just don't get him to remember!"
Lyric Lydia,"Female, Half-Elf, Storyteller"," Wishes fame and grandeur from telling stories to princes and kings. Wants to marry into wealth. Creative but a poor memory, makes up the stories as she goes, creating unintended consequences and her near poverty. Great skill with a blade but never liked to use it or practice very often. Would make a legendary fighter if she didn't hate fighting so much."
"Ragor Svenson, the Blood Wave",Male Human Retired Berserker," A jolly 65 year old barbarian. He spends his time at home, reminiscing of the good ol' days (raiding and slaying). His beard is wicked long, white, and braided. In the back of his mind, he fears dying at home in bed, without honor."
Lickety-Split MacLonroe,Male Gnome Jockey," A pompous gnome horse jockey. Prides himself as ""the fastest gnome on four legs."" Obsessive about his reputation, Lickety often challenges random civilians on the street. Word on the street: Lickety has a big gambling problem."
Jenny Scrumster,Female Half-elf Drug Dealer," An up and coming drug lord. Jenny raised herself on the streets, befriending a lone myconid hiding in the sewers. Jenny, with the help of her friend, began selling exotic hallucinogenic mushrooms on the black market. Her business is becoming incredibly successful, her 'shrooms even find their way into the hands of powerful politicians."
Violet Kingkiller,Female Human Assassin," A highly trained assassin. Her speciality: regicide. Responsible for over a hundred known assassinations, rulers of all kinds fear Kingkiller. She makes murder easy, the only tricky part, however, is finding her."
Tim,going," However, he really just requires good direction and a committed teacher. Tim could be a great cleric one day. Tim is dutiful, tries his best at anything he does, takes directions very literally, and is nicer than most people."
Doctor McGinBreath,Male Dwarf Cleric/Drunk," Doctor McGinBreath hangs out in the bars and will do questionable things for drinking money. He's not a very good cleric, but he can cast some spells. Also has a tendency to blow his spell slots on Detect Good/Evil, and if he finds an evil person, he points at them and says ""EVIL. EVIL. EVIL. EVIL! EVIIIIIL!"" until they leave the bar."
Vafara,Female Half-Elf Witch," Vafara is an apprentice witch, but she's not that kind of witch, thank you very much. Really, how presumptuous is it of you to assume that all witches are going to curse you and cackle. Vafara is actually a very nice young lady who happens to just be into the witch stuff because it runs in her family, and her aunt(on the human side, of course, her elvish father doesn't approve of any of this witch stuff or even Vafara's existence at all, being a prickly elf) started teaching her some spells, and you know what, it's really none of your business anyway. Personality is snobbish and uptight on the outside, still uptight on the inside, but reasoned and fair, if you aren't giving her shit about the whole witch thing."
Lady Tallis Dulak,Female Human Noble," Lady Dulak gives a lot of money to charity. Everyone knows that, because the Tallis Dulak Home for Poor Children is very well advertised. It's good business, but Tallis actually does like helping poor children, and she can be found at the Home several days out of the week, for a few hours at least, helping children find clothing and shoes that fit them, and handing out free food. At nights, she attends(or hosts) lavish parties where she lets all the other nobles know how terrible they are for being oppressive."
Lieutenant Althaea Naidel,Female Elf Spy," Lt. Naidel joined the army as soon as she was able, her skill with a bow being the best in her village, and her patriotism was unrivaled. As she rose through the ranks, she became known for her ability to take down enemies without making a sound, and she was recruited into the special forces, and later into certain unnamed organizations. She now leads a 4-person infiltration group. She's good at tactics and at being a spy, but not so good at diplomacy. She's cold to outsiders, but to her crew, she's actually kind and warm. They're her kinsmen, after all, and if she doesn't look after them, no one will."
Ugrah Kardson,great, Ugrah only gets mad and starts behaving aggressively if you insult the carpentry of the Kardson line.
Justice,Female Tiefling Protestor," The young tiefling known as Leria was persecuted for the way she looked. Leria didn't think this was fair, since she hadn't done anything wrong. As she grew up, she began to see that discrimination and injustice were everywhere in the world, and it wasn't just tieflings, so she changed her name and set out to make the world a better place by spreading awareness through public displays where she mostly just shouts about injustice and discrimination to anyone who will listen. Justice spends a lot of her time in prison."
Sivashi and Shivari,Female Genasi Druids," These two Genasi druids are twins, both seeking to find balance by obtaining the ability to manifest all of the Genasi elements within themselves. Sivashi seeks to find balance among the elements and find true peace, but Shivari wants to conquer the elements for herself. They parted ways once it was obvious that their philosophies conflict, but people often confuse one for the other. Personalities: very shifting, as they're genasi, but also because they move among elemental manifestations, bringing out different personality traits."
Ivy.,"Female, humanoid, paladin/alchemist."," Rose is a beautiful woman in her mid twenties with blood red hair and emerald green eyes. She does not like to fight very much, but rather just heal her allies and find diplomatic solutions to problems. When one of her allies dies or she gets hurt though, anger overcomes her, and she uses her giant great sword (aptly named thorn) to tear apart those that defile her.   Ivy is the twin sister of rose, and much like rose, uses her potions to buff and heal enemies in battle. She has green hair and green eyes. Rather than try to find diplomatic relations with people, she uses her beauty and deception to get what she wants. She thinks that the brutish ways of her sister are barbaric, preferring to throw poisons at enemies to weaken them."
Stack,'Male' Warforged Blacksmith," A blacksmith specializing in the creation and repair of rare and unique armors. He was trained by a retired Dwarven smith, and imprinted on him to the point of behaving like a dwarf and 'growing' a beard made from metal shavings, fixed to his lower mandible. His odd behavior is looked upon as slightly eccentric but harmless, though he makes quite a mess at the taverns when he attempts to have a few drinks. If called out on not actually being a dwarf, he will insist he's simply wearing a large suit of armor, and will 'prove' it by attempting to remove his head, and complaining that his ""damned helmet latches have stuck again"" when it won't come off."
Orel the 'White Knight',"Human, Male, Knight"," Orel is the somewhat overweight 4th son of respected local lord who followed his father into military service. He cannot understand how he remains single at the ripe old age of 25, despite being such a good guy. All of his female friends are just that, friends, and he will protect them in this dark world of selfish jock-bastards who just want to take advantage of women. Soon, very soon, the ungrateful sluts will finally realise his worth and flock to their real man and recognise a hero of women's rights."
Evangeline (Evan),"Female (Male), Human, Squire"," This young woman is a struggling squire, dressed with poor quality but well cared for leathers. She is bronzed in skin and dark in hair, which she has cut short and practical. She accepts her lowly position, is dedicated to her training and behaves practically, bar a little autistic need for all statements to be exact and literal. (Male at birth.)"
Tarl,"Male, Human, Inept Mage"," An inept junior mage who is considerably overweight already. He grows a poor beard in an attempt to look more wise or senior but only achieves looking like a neckbeard. He suffers severe toilet-related bowel problems at little warning which frequently get in the way of his magic at the most inopportune times. Despite this, he doesn't wash himself or his own clothes."
Sathriel,"Male, Elf, Cook political upstart"," A tall, middle aged elf with early grey hair and a loud mouth, who thinks himself far smarter than his position. A passionate trade-unionist and active [what we would call] Marxist, urging the underclasses to raise up to claim their just rewards."
Varan Feddik,"Male, Dwarf, ""Honest"" Merchant"," Lots of brown, almost ginger, hair and an impressive beard frame the lovable face of this wannabe roguish merchant. He is a trusting man and genuinely believes he is an honest merchant but should perhaps trust his suppliers a little less. He only hires honest folk who are down on their luck and despite being arrested several times for selling stolen goods, cannot understand why it keeps happening."
Silvos Saltore,Male Human Detective," Tall dark and handsome You will never see him without his Glasses of dim light (sunglasses) Frequntly uses terrible catch frases, witch he always finshes by taking of or putting on his Glasses He works for the cityguard as a detective"
Karif,Male Kobold Naive Performer," A small kobold with big dreams. Karif wants to be a world-renowned singer more than anything else; unfortunately, Karif has a voice like a sword being dragged across flagstone. Unfortunately for everyone else, Karif is completely oblivious to this, and has traveled to the Big City to finally realize his hopes and ambitions. Karif is incredibly optimistic and naive, despite any evidence to the contrary, and is relentless in pursuing his dreams."
Lanforn The Great (The Useless),I have a lot of story behind this guy and all of his unintentional antics," Possibly the greatest wizard in all of existence, but also the universe's greatest irony. Wears the wizarding clothes of his adventuring years, a purple robe and pointy hat with stars and moons all over. Long pointy white beard, and ear hair to match, he is the classic 1E Merlin. Not much is certain about Lanforn, except that none of his spells will go correctly, and he never learns from his mistakes. Trained as a circus magician, he later became a university wizard."
Kevin Himmagen,Male Human Enchanter and Arcane collector," He owns a large shop. He is in his early twenties and has black hair, a thin black beard and an incredibly mono-tonal voice, despite his excitable nature. Overall very knowledgeable and an astute businessman. He seems to turn up everywhere."
Stumpwater Jack,Male Half-Orc Hermit," Stumpwater Jack was raised by his witch mother in a small shack deep in a dangerous swamp. He learned a small amount of magic from his mother but did so with great difficulty. One day his temper got the better of him and he ransacked their home and ran off into the wilds. Unaware if he had harmed his mother, he decided not to return. He now wanders the swamp a hermit. He speaks in short direct sentences with little to no fluff. Social graces are a foreign concept to him and on the occasion that he meets someone, he usually offends them. He has a habit of keeping is hands at his side when he speaks, looking almost statue like."
Halvar Strand,Male Human Adventurer (Retired)," Once a great hero among Northern Isles, Halvar battled great dragons and monsters in his earlier years. His final ""heroic fight"" was against a Leviathan that had been reportedly terrorising a small port town. As he stepped up to the edge of a sea cliff to challenge the Leviathan to battle, he was swept to sea by a massive wave. During the ""fight"" Halvar lost his magnificent sword, ""blixt"" and was so ashamed of this unfortunate turn of events that he fled south in hopes of never being seen again. To this day, he still has a grudge against the Leviathan, and refuses to stand near sea cliffs."
Oskar Ungart,Beardless Male Dwarf Inkeeper," Oskar is a clanless dwarf by choice, he is also beardless. You don't get to question his life choices, and better keep your damn trap shut. He is who he is, and is proud of it, dammit."
Albert Kelcus,"Male, Gnome, Alchemist"," Albert lives in a small shack outside of town. He is trying to create his very own artificial life however is always unsuccessful. On the bright side, he makes good healing potions (however they always smell of cabbage)."
John Kelley,"Male, Human, Amateur Diviner"," John is a very sweet man, but not a very smart man. He has the unfortunate tendency of summoning hostile ghosts and spirits instead of the spirits he intended to summon, this naturally leads to PC's having to save him from his blunder."
Edward Dee,"Male, Half-Elf, Warlock"," When no PC is there to save John from his blunders, Edward does. He is shorter and plumper than one might imagine a half-elf to be but he makes up for that as a rather gifted Warlock."
Joyce,"Female, Elf, Tavern Owner/Retiree"," Some Elves do not see near immortality as a gift. Joyce always wanted a simple simple life and at the first moment she got, she opened a small seaside tavern called the Bloated Seagull."
Graham Hennessy,"Human, Guardsman, Charismatic"," Graham loves his job, although not the part of the job where criminals hit him with things. He'd much rather solve a problem with his charming personality than revert to violence. He's no master swordsman, but he'll show you the sharp end when he needs to."
Ysma,"Female, Elf, Tea shop owner/necromancer"," Elves live for quite a long time, as we all know. Elves of course live longer after dabbling with the right kinds of necromancy. She'd never admit to prolonging her life by means of the darker magics. She'd much rather have a pleasant discussion over some tea. Don't go into her basement though, that's where she keeps the poor fools who asked too many questions."
Celine,"Male, Satyr, Thrower of Great Parties"," Celine is a harmless enough fellow, he and his band of roaming Satyrs kidnap weary travellers for a party that won't be forgotten (or perhaps entirely forgotten depending on how much wine is served)! In that time, no harm is done to the traveller and after the party, the traveller usually wakes up further in the forest in the direction they're heading."
"Errol ""The White Dragon""","Male, Dwarf, Ex-Soldier"," Errol was a soldier as a young man. He earned himself the nickname The White Dragon for his prowess on the battlefield as well as his shining white armour. In his old age, he tells stories to young folk and if you ask him how he got his nickname, he just takes in a deep drag from his pipe and blows the smoke out his nose while growling like a dragon."
Mother Hannah,"Female, Human, Wheelchair-Bound Wizard"," A sweet old woman and caretaker of a small sanctuary for those learning in need of wizarding knowledge. She will teach young people in exchange for a book from their travels, assuming it's not one she already has. If you come to her empty-handed, she is very easily persuaded with kind words. If you come to her with harsh words, you may not live to apologise."
WOO 10 DONE! THIS IS UNEDITED DON'T HATE ME.,"Male, Human (as far as he's concerned), farmer (obviously)"," Gerald is a decent enough man most days of the week, but sheep from his flock and livestock of neighbouring farms go missing on Monday nights. Wolves or perhaps bandits are the usual suspects. Gerald is blissfully unaware that he, late Monday evening, transforms into a werewolf. He hasn't harmed a person, nor has he been spotted...yet."
Grandmaster Erobern,Male Human Lord Justicar of the Most Noble Order of the Holy Visage," An aged man, once young a full of zeal to smite those of evil intent, the fullness of his years has replaced his strength with wisdom. Erobern prefers to wield his considerable influence with subtlety, a carefully chosen word here, a dissemination of information there. Erobern prefers problems to be solved with the least amount of bloodshed possible. Some factions of the Order see this as a weakness."
Justicar Adjutant Snellry,Male Halfling Archivist," If Erobern is the spider, then Snellry is the web. Snellry collects information on the activities of evil throughout the realm. Snellry proudly considers himself a shield for Erobern, employing... diverse means of gathering information. Erobern of course, is familiar with Snellry's activities but allows him a certain latitude for the good of the realm."
Galban the Swift,Male Half Elf Will of the Visage," Galban holds the highest position in the order below the Grandmaster and travels the land on a celestial steed, speaking Erobern's will to the chapters of the order, adjudicating disputes and disseminating information. He is renowned for being both fleet of foot and swift to take offence should someone insult the order. He secretly harbours an irrational fear of ship and open ocean waters."
Mistress Ariandre Erendril,Female Elf Master at Arms," Ariandre is responsible for the instruction in armed combat of all Order members. Some of the younger order members call her 'Mother Dee,' but never to her face. She hears more than they know however. The title causes her particular pain as Galban is secretly her son, born of an affair with a now disgraced former member of the order. She is unsure if Erobern knows this fact."
Chaucy Orlan,"Male Human, Former Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Holy Visage"," Chaucy the Betrayer, Chaucy Oathbreaker, Chaucy the Blind, Chaucy the Red, Chaucy the Black. Chaucy fell in love with Mistress Erendil while under her tutelage. On a journey together, in a time of weakness, wine and loneliness, they crossed the divide between student and lover. Chaucy is guilt ridden and travels the land searching out those who would do evil, perhaps looking for penance, perhaps looking for a glorious death for the cause of righteousness."
Dranmer Duluth,Dwarven Male Knight of the Order," Dranmer is a recently proven Knight of the Order, rapidly making a name for himself with the slaying of bandits, orcs and undead. He unquestioningly obeys the orders of his superiors. Dranmer was beaten by his father as a child, and is particularly harsh when dealing with men who would abuse children."
Aera Cloudshammer,Dwarven Female Master Armourer of the Order," Aera makes the heavy armours and weapons used by the Knights, infused with the holy power of the divine. She is obsessive about cleanliness and order in her workshop, and becomes agitated if anything is out of place. She has only two fingers and a thumb on her left hand from a raid on her home village in her youth that left all but her dead. Erobern (then a young knight) rescued her and took her into the order. Aera loves the Grandmaster dearly."
Denjack,Human Male Stablehand," Denjack is recently arrived at the Order, taken on to perform menial tasks and assist in the stables. Denjack hears whispers in his head at night and is unsure if they are divine or malevolent. The whispers are strongest on the night of the full moon."
Sunna The White,Female Human Cannibal Cleric," A sweet, innocent, middle aged woman. She masquerades as a priestess of the god of the village, while at the same time eating the people who were recently buried. She moved into kidnapping travellers and involuntary euthanasia a couple of weeks ago. She eats people because she learned an immortality rite from a forbidden book that involves cannibalism and blood sacrifices to her true god."
Thenmozhibe,Female tiefling moneylender," Relatively tall with a wiry build, and no noticeable hair. Carries a many-notched steel staff of exactly five feet that she uses for taking measurements. Spends a month at a time inspecting roads and bridges and recommending changes around a town that hires her before moving on. Understands several languages but primarily speaks Dwarven in conversations with herself and others. His nose makes a faint whistling noise when he talks. Spends his evenings cleaning tables at a friend's inn in exchange for a room. Average height, broad shoulders, and shaved head with a large greying mustache. Has substantial savings that he intends to put toward building a house in the woods nearby. Twice married to human men less than half her age and twice widowed from duels in her honor. Wears secondhand clothes and jewelry from whichever town she last visited, to be traded in or sold for replacements in her current town. Talented flutist who takes pride in recognizing and developing the musical talents of those around her. Long brown hair, green eyes, and a permanently seductive expression. Dull-witted but friendly, and loyal to his friends and employers (in that order). Unable to speak any language except rudimentary Dwarven, though he understands orders as long as they are in Dwarven. His face is a misshapen mess of scars and broken bones that he has accumulated over the years, and his unkempt red beard has had chunks torn out of it. He is independently wealthy and spends coin generously, though nobody knows where or how he has amassed such a fortune. Short brown hair, a hawkish nose, and a large pair of canine teeth jutting up from her lower jaw make up an unusual visage, if not a particularly ugly one. She does not boast many clients, but those that pay will pay very well for her services - and highly recommend ""that thing she does with her teeth."" Offers a money-back guarantee if clients leave unsatisfied, which no one has yet been able (or willing) to claim. Spends most of her free time passing by the homes of the nobility, admiring their gardens. Straight black horns follow his thin white hair back behind his head; rheumy brown eyes sit above a thin-lipped business smile. A team of apprentices run the day-to-day operations while he sits in the back of his shop, dreaming up and sketching fashion ideas. When a client of sufficient value enters, he becomes as authoritative and demanding as any tyrant, and will often simply forbid a troublesome client from speaking altogether; it is a testament to his prowess that business does not waver. He holidays with his paramour among the nobility once each year, whose identity he keeps secret largely for his own sake. Standing six feet even, Sash is heavily muscled and deceptively quick; her hair is tied back and she has silver tattoos over her arms and legs that stand out in stark contrast to her ebony skin. She's a bouncer for a tavern that sees very little business during the day, but much more when she's managing the tavern's fight pit after midnight. She regularly takes a week off to visit her family out of town, though once in a blue moon she'll take one of her many challengers up on their offer for a fight in the pit. Her tattoos are in Orcish - what she thinks says ""Swiftness,"" ""Vengeance,"" ""Fury,"" and ""Resolve"" actually says ""Fruit,"" ""Southeast,"" ""Brownly,"" and ""Dwwabmmh."" Soft white scales run from the crown of his head and flare out all the way down his spine, while the rest of him covered in smooth, leathery grey skin. At his full height, he is a scale under six feet tall, with the tendency to crouch or bow his head to better hear those smaller than him. While young for his kind, he is very sickly; on any given day he might be sweating or coughing heavily, and he usually sounds exhausted. On rare occasions (months apart), he feels genuinely, truly good for days at a time, during which he shuts himself in his tiny home and works non-stop as his cultured colleagues await the results with baited breath. Short and stocky frame, with asymmetrical, broken brown horns that have been filed smooth. She can be very abrasive, and speaks openly about her distaste for her clients, her hired thugs, and the business of moneylending. She balks at spending money herself, though she is quick to jump on a deal if she's certain she can turn it over in her favor quickly. She refuses to deal in silver pieces, in an often futile attempt to invoke her demonic heritage for leverage."
Lana of the Riverlands,Female Watergenasi Hermit/Druid," A weird old woman that lives in a small hole by the riverside. She takes care of the ecosytem of the riverland around where the river Vree flows into the Great Green Sea. She sees herself as the guardian of the river, having lived here for almost 40 years. She avoid human contact most of the time but some days she visits the town of Vreedam, where she tends to the sick and poor. Most of the normal citizens of Vreedam see her as a harmless nutter, but to the homeless, beggars and orphants she is seen as a kind of saint. Whenever she goes throught the streets there is allways a swarm or urchins surrounding her and she allways has some goodberries to spare. Her hair has turned the colour of sea foam and her sky blue skin has as many wrinkels as the sea during a storm, her back isn't what it used to be either so she is seldom seen without the driftwood staff she uses for walking. But her eyes are still the same as in her youth. Big eyes that catch the light and reflect it like a mountain lake on a windless day. Yet also deep and blue like the sea. Eyes that you could loose yourself in and drown. And many a man did back in the days. The old folk can sometimes tell of a time where every man was trying to court the mysterious lady of the shore. Yet none succeded. None but one."
"Kareem the Bright, Captain of the Ocean Dawn/Bard",Male Fire Genassi Captain of a trading ship," When he first arrived in Vreedam the news spread like wildfire, soon every young womans heart was burning with a passion. He was handsome, he was charming, he was exotic. In one word, he was hot. The Ocean Dawn hailed from Brangha, a big trading city in the far west. She was carring fruit, spices and silk of sorts people in Vreedam had never seen. The Ocean Dawn stayed in harbour for 3 weeks. Quite a long time. Why you ask? To celebrate the Dawns arrival the major decided to hold a massive party, it doesn't happen every day (or even year) that a ship from this far west found it's way to Vreedam after all. There was music and dance, food and alcohol, laughter and cheering. And at the center of it all was Kareem. Allways surounded by a flock of young woman, first dancing with this one, then with that one. Then he was gone. As if by magic. Which in a magic rich world like this seems actually quite likely ;) You see Kareem isn't actually quite the party type, while he loves to dance he doesn't like big crowds. He is honestly a bit of a loner. And so it came that on this fatefull night an again visible Kareem decided to take a stroll along the beach. And it was here, where the Vree joins the Great Green Sea that he met her. Deep Blue hair blowing in the ocean breeze, looking out towards the sea with eyes that reflected the moon and the stars. Their eyes met and Kareem could feel his heart skip a beat. The next day some folk reported seeing two figures dancing on the waves, only their silhouettes visible against the morning sun rising from the ocean. The Ocean Dawn left 3 weeks later, to travel to the Small Green Sea and sell the rest of it's wares and return a few weeks later to Vreedom to let of a single person and then travel back west to Brangha where it would have to find a new captain. This was the last anyone saw of the Oceans Dawn for 35 years."
Jasper de Wit,male human swashbuckler/rogue," Blond, longish hair, slightly tanned skin, blue eyes, of average height for a 19 year old. Jaspers mother died in childbed and his afther died 4 years later out at sea working as a fisherman. Jasper grew up on the streets of Vreedam, a town that doesn't do much for it's homeless and orphants. He is good friends with Lana of the Riverlands. During some especially hard times the goodberries she gives to the orphans were the only food he had for weeks. He considers this a lifelong depth he owes her. He left the town with 16 with little more then the shirt on his back. He returned 3 years later, wearing fine clothes and carrying a purse full of goldcoins. Some foul mouths would tell you that the ways he got this money weren't quite legal. They are right. Jasper dreams of marrying the mayors daughter Anika Hummel and opening an orphanage in Vreedam. And he is allready making progress towards these dreams. Well at least the first one."
Anika Hummel,female human daughter of the mayor," Long chestnut hair, green eyes, freckles in her face and on her arms. He allways has a smile on her lips and is of quite tall for a 20 year old woman. Many of the young men in town try to court her, not only because she is quite good looking but also because she is the daughter of the mayor. She politely refuses all of them. Unbeknown to everyone she and Jasper have been seeing each other for a few months now. Meeting in secret. She knows that her father would not aprove of her relationship woth Jasper, her mother might. People that know of the relationship: Jasper de Wit, Anika Hummel, Lana of the Riverlands, I will add more as I add characters"
Hugo Hummel,male human mayor of Vreedam," Ash blond short trimmed hair and beard, blue eyes, middle aged, relativly small for a man, beer belly. Needs reading glasses. Hugo has been the mayor of Vreedam for the last 25 years and has actually done a quite decent job. Since he became mayor the town has seen a stready grow in population and prosperity, trade has been good and the depth that the old mayor managed to create has been payed of in full. (The old mayor was fond of throwing parties for various ocasions using town money.) The Hummels have been a merchant family in Vreedam since its inception 300 years ago. They used to own the very first corner store. Where it stood before now stands the Hummel Trade hall, which hosts most of the trade going on in Vreedam. Hugo is very proud about Vreedam and the development it has seen during his time. Whenever talking about it he has taken to calling it the City of Vreedam thought nobody else has adopted this yet. He is the father of Anika Hummel, husband of Natalia Hummel and big brother of Henry Hummel."
Natalia Hummel,Female Half-Elf Wife/Mother," Long chestnut hair that she wears in a bun, green eyes, still very good looking for her age. She was born a De Haan and married Hugo 30 years ago when they both were barely adults. They were what some might call fools in love. Sadly over the years the fire of passion faded and their mariage is hardly what you could call passionate. The things that binds them together is the love for their daughter Anika. Natalia is a strong woman and while her husband is the mayor, there is no doupt that in the Hummel household she calls the shots."
Henry Hummel,Male Human Head of the trading hall," Ash blond short hair, blue eyes, quite tall. Allways a winnig smile on his lips. While his brother became the mayor of Vreedam, Henry took over the family buisness of managing the Hummel Trade Hall throught which most of the trade in Vreedam flows. You will usually find him either in the hall or at the harbour speaking to some merchant or the captain of a trading ship in their native language. Few people know that he actaully owes this gift for languages to a magic ring of languages that allows it's wearer to read any language and speak to people in any language they know. The ring has been a family heirloom for generations and its origins are said to be of not quite holy nature. (It was demons, some ancestor sold his soul for this ring) Henry is also the biological father of Anika. A fact only him and Natalia know."
Annabel the Poppet Master,Female Human Possessed girl," Annabel was a normal 10 year old girl before she discovered a tiny doll in the woods. The doll spoke to her, and when she answered, it possessed her. She now wanders the forests and swamps waiting to curse anyone foolish enough to venture into her territory."
Jute the Dragoon,Male Formerly-human Wandering warrior," Long ago, ""Jute"" was grievously wounded in a battle. Though it was too late to save his body, his allies transferred his consciousness into magic rope, which served as his body ever since. He wears heavy armor so he appears to be a normal human, but he is actually composed of tendrils of rope. He has wandered the world so long that he forgot his real name. He rides an ankylosaurus named Sige."
Dywin the Purifier,Female Elf Human slayer, Dywin is a pureblooded elf who was raised to despise all elves of impure blood and the humans that corrupted them. She travels the world silently weeding out the half-elf population and inflicting justice on any human who would dare breed with an elf.
Burgten the Skull Smasher,Male Half-orc Tribe leader," Burgten takes great pride in his orcish heritage despite being only half orc. He instills loyalty in his tribe by leading them to victory after victory in combat. However, he is also a shrewd diplomat, and has secured his tribe protection from the major empires that surround him."
Leiris,Female Aasimar Druid," Leiris wanders the forests without a care. She helps anyone who seeks her aid, but never actively seeks to find people in need. Her animal companion is an elk."
Person from Porlock,??? ??? I don't remember, The Person from Porlock visits in moments of epiphany to drain inspiration. Works especially well on Bards. It's unknown if the Person from Porlock is a single individual or a race of beings.
Haftir the Immortal,Male Dragon All-consuming destroyer," Millenia ago, Haftir was the destroyer of civilizations. Every thousand years he would emerge from slumber to destroy any civilization that had appeared since his last visit and hoard away all their gold in his cave. However, he now sleeps forever, helpless to move because his gold was formed into a chain around him by a clever human, which he values too much to break."
Raven,Male Drow Information broker," Raven buys and sells information. Everyone hates him because he's a dick, but his information is so valuable that everyone puts up with him."
Lexi Prottimer,Female Human Entrepreneur," A member of the wealthy Prottimer family, Lexi is just beginning her financial enterprises. Aiding her may result in gaining the family's trust and/or aid, which could be invaluable."
Laurelin etherborn,Female elf druid," Laurelin was abandoned as a child in the green forest when her family was captured by a band of orcs. She was adopted by the forest spirits and became one with the land. Raised by wild spirits, Laurelin is an untamable druid with a deep understanding of the natural world."
Hanuman das,Male human monk," Train as a monkey-priest in the far eastern lands, hanuman is incredible agile. He enjoys the simple life: Wandering around the world, eating whatever the people give him, and helping others to find their inner-selfs. He stands out from the medieval townsfolk as a tall and slender hindu man with colorful robes."
Forthrightly Goldwine,Female Halfling Thief," An experienced cutpurce, Forthrightly was named by parents who hoped she'd be polite, hardworking and to-the-point. Able to lift herself out of the poverty they raised her in with honest labor. They don't talk much anymore."
Gormundr Halfshanks,Male Goliath Hunter," Gormundr leads the Mountain Rangers, a group of outcasts who live in the shade of the mighty peaks. Though they tend to be shunned by civilized society they perform an important role, holding back the great beasts, aberrant monstrosities and occasional shambling undead that roam from their natural habitat to the borders of farmland. While they aren't free their services are invaluable to small villages who are paid no heed by the larger cities."
Rock,Male Goliath Moron," Rock isn't his full name, but it's the best translation of what the other members of his tribe call him. Though he attempts to be useful and has prodigious strength he is... untroubled by the complexities of life. If given any task of greater complexity than ""Take this heavy thing to here"" he'll find a way to make it go wrong, without even a malicious thought in his head."
Magnus Hammerhand,Male Dwarf Commander," Unprepared for the sheer brutality of war with the Goblin tribes of their new mountain home the expedition that sent Magnus to Fort Strongbow was slaughtered, with barely a hundred of a thousand-strong caravan making it to their destination. With an outpost set up however Magnus took charge of the remaining warriors and proved that Dwarves are nothing if not tenacious. With all thought of mercy stripped away by the years of bloodthirsty combat Magnus' mission is to keep his people alive and pacify the mountains for Dwarvenkind."
Ruallion Thanaton,Male Elf Wight," Ruallion was a hero of Elvenkind. A brave warrior who died in glorious battle with his barbed spear still clutched in hand, stained red with his own blood and that of his enemies. However when a storm of wild magic washed over his forgotten corpse he was reanimated as a shade of his former self, a being of pure malice with no direction or purpose. Now he stalks the earth, roaming from the fields of civilized lands to the caverns of the underdark to the gutters of ancient cities. With nothing better to do and an unquenchable lust for blood Ruallion sells his services to the highest bidder as a shock-trooper and assassin, not for the money but for the sake of killing and the desperate search for purpose. The Red Wight doesn't need to breathe, doesn't need to sleep, doesn't need to eat and is just as deadly dead as he was alive."
Julliana Orsendi,Female Human Broker," Working under the pseudonym ""The Lark"" Julliana inherited her family's side-business while her father and brothers were off riding horses and filling themselves with arrows in their spare time. The women of the Orsendi family are just as vital as the men to retaining their status, and they do this by maintaining a large network of spies and informants in every noble house from here to the next country over. The information that gets passed to them finds its way to the ears that need to hear it, for a price. Julliana is the eldest of four sisters and the current mistress of the nobility's secrets, though what she decides to do with them will depend on who's paying."
Nefyros the Dracomancer,Male Dragonborn Wizard," Nefyros is one of the foremost scholars on Dragon lore currently alive today, and according to rumor is the original author of the Dracnomicon sustained by black magics. This is of course nonsense, though he did have a hand in editing the later editions of that famous text. Nefyros has devoted his life to the study of dragons, driven by some purpose that leads him to delve deep into their secrets. Untouched by the sorcerous magics that grant power to a few with true draconic blood Nefyros instead entered into the study of arcane magic, and is a master of transmutation. Thus far however, all of his experiments with turning himself into a dragon have failed to produce permanent results, and have almost lost him his research funding a couple of times."
Strife Harkanon,Male Human Bandit Leader," Presumed to be a pseudonym, mainly because it's extremely cool or stupidly overblown depending on who you ask, Strife is a relative unknown among the lawless brigands of the world. What little is known from captured members of his band of thieves and pillagers indicates that he was a child soldier, following his father off to war when he was only a young boy. His fellows grew up under similar circumstances, pitiless and amoral men forged in war at a young age. The bandit leader is known to be a capable warrior and utterly without sympathy for the weak, despite multiple offers of amnesty he seems to have committed himself to an existence of lifelong strife."
"Lu'Nahan, the Dark Side of the Moon",Ineffable Alien Thing," A being from the far realm that has come close to the world, drawn by the burning light of the world's life like a moth to a flame. Lu'Nahan dwells as a shadow on the dark side of the moon, its mind reaching out to the world by night to touch the minds of mortals who would serve its ends. Its purpose is uncertain, but it feeds on the light and the heat and those who worship it desire to bring it down to the world, with the moon if necessary."
Vilendas Easterling,"A 5'11"" half elf male with sandy blond hair trimmed short and combed into an almost swooping way with and angular jaw and sharp features. No facial hair."," Pretty good looking and popular with the ladies as well as men, this is a local language teacher at the secondary school for the educationally gifted sons who can attend. This is the best school in the country. Here he teaches primarily mastery of common and proper writing etiquette and composition. He also enjoys theater and directs plays as well as providing his own screenplays."
Charlie the Somewhat Smart,Male Human ex-merchant Wizard," Some people have mid-life crises. Such is the case with Charlie, who prefers to be called Charlie the Smart. Some adventurers came into his shop a year ago and tried to sell him a spellbook they found. Considering he was running a grain and livestock feed store, he was hesitant. But he took the offer and has since left his shop with his son and decided to find adventure."
Ledus Pacus,Female Minitaur Retired Mercenary," She is tall at seven feet, with greying chestnut fur. She retains much of her muscle, but is going soft around the midsection. She can be gruff and callous, but she is a font of information about the local area and abroad. Drinks milk, which is objectively weird."
Reah van Nynaaten,Female Dwarf Mayor," Short and heavy-set. Black hair tied back into a thick braid. The mayor of a small town. She is full of new ideas like ""democracy"" and ""civil rights."""
Lobelia Mustard,Female Halfling Fighter (ex-paladin), Drug addict. Lobelia is about as wide across as she is tall. Red hair and sallow skin. Her armour is unpolished and she stinks. If she hasn't had her fix recently she's a grump.
Tasai Qamio,Female Human Bureaucrat," Tasai is a diplomat from the north. She is campaigning across the countryside, amassing supporters on a platform of religion and military training. She has not explicitly announced her opposition to the crown, but many suspect that she intends to become a usurper."
Uazmos Txigu,Female Eladrin Bard," Uazmos is talented, beautiful, compassionate, and confident. She is known far and wide for her powerful presence, strong will, and her generosity towards the less fortunate. Her songs often make overt jabs at the priorities of the court."
Ximmiant Teseoah,Female Dwarf Ceremonial Fighter," Ximmiant is a veteran of the Vela Key Arena. Her sport of choice is batter ball, and every season she is the favoured competitor. Her mother was an oracle, and many suspect her skill is owed to an inherited precognition."
Corvus Allabaster,Male Kenku Accidental Jewel Thief," Having been born with all white feathers and sky blue eyes (a bad omen in his flock) Corvus was exiled at age 12. Being a bad omen others of his flock avoided him so they too wouldn't be outcasts, this of course caused him to develop no social skills, and he's an accidental thief partly because of this and partly for just being a Kenku, for they have no teeth so they rely on their gizzard which means they need to swallow small rocks and pebbles to help grind food, and Corvus, not knowing that gems have value, has ingested many ""shiny stones"" that has resulted in many hardships and enemies"
Eyef,Female Aasimar Cleric," A spunky woman with pale skin, emerald eyes and metallic blue hair. She was left on the doorstep of a temple to Shelyn as a baby. She greatly enjoys the fine arts, and she is gifted in the dulcimer and singing. She has a free spirit and tries to see the best in everyone."
Brad Greyfinch,Male Human Pickpocket," A teen who wanted to see the adventures of war, Brad left his home to enlist in the army as a messenger boy. However, when army discipline and war proved to be too much for Brad, he deserted and lost himself in a big city. Having lost all of his youthful optimism, Brad now works as a pickpocket for a local crime syndicate. He tells himself that there's no way to change his life now, and that he'll probably be a criminal until he dies."
Mattin Bathew,Male Human General," A middle-aged noble who has fought in the army for decades. Calm and collected, he has a remarkable talent for directing armies on the field and in directing them when not in combat as well. He is a widower, although he has two grown sons who also serve in the army. He cannot hold his liquor well at all, and so he refrains from drink when on the campaign trail."
Costa Caro,Male Human Assassin," Costa is a lean man with a perpetual five o’clock shadow. He has dark eyes and longish dark hair with streaks of grey at the temples. He’s a handsome enough guy, though he looks a little dangerous. He’s obviously a good fighter, to anyone who knows about fighting. He has olive skin and stands about 5’ 7”. He’s not heavily muscled but he’s definitely not scrawny. He comes across as a confident but suspicious man who lives with one foot in the streets and one foot in the respectable world. Costa has an easy laugh and a gregarious manner, but his emotions don’t seem to really reach his eyes. He’s obviously seen some crazy shit and it’s deadened him a little inside."
Crazy Stan,"Male, Human, King/General/Ambassador/Adventurer"," Old and worn, with hairs of grey he wears old clothing, and has an unkempt beard, on his right wrist he wears a Platinum Bracer, and on his back is an empty scabbard, fit for a Greatsword. His Stories, while almost never true, are the stuff of legend, and are quite amazing to hear, even though he constantly refers to the times these stories took place in as, 'Back in My day' He frequents the inn, and offers to tell one of his stories if the adventurer would buy him a drink. It's not known if he has any sort of home, or other belongings, as he hasn't left the inn in years."
Caleb Stonehead,Male Human Peasant," Caleb is a kind-hearted simpleton. He's easily fooled, but always has the best of intentions and frequently goes out of his way to help others. He's strong, with massive hands, and would likely make a dangerous opponent if one ever managed to truly anger him."
Ashlan Tinderfoot,Male Halfling Innkeep," Once a typically jolly halfling, Ashlan fell to despair and drink after his wife died in childbirth. His inn is falling into disrepair, and he all but ignores the child."
Estheria Willowbreeze,Female Elven Anthropologist & Archeologist," Estheria spends her long life traveling, embedding herself within primitive cultures to study their ways. She has published several lengthy books. Her time among simpler folk have affected her worldview tremendously, and she no longer has much interest in returning to the haughtiness and arrogance of traditional elven culture."
"Borhild ""Werewolf"" Dagmarson",M – Human – Wrestler," A large man dressed in fearsome furs, Borhild ""the Werewolf"" is the skull-crushing underground brawler who even the villains of the ring will unite against. Secretly, he wishes to exit the business and inherit the small shop where his parents sell hand-knitted tchotchkes."
Lord Snellby,M – Half-elf – Snake oil dealer," Traversing the rough roads in his wagon full of elixirs and faux noble getup, Ersatz Snellers (""Lord Snellby"") peddles his wares, half of them no more potent than water."
Kaéshek,F – Shadow Elf – Warrior/Leader," When the slave revolts in Bashraqqa began, the people looked to a hero. Kaéshek is who they found. Long free herself, she had hidden connections to the shadowy organizations which bankrolled the revolution. Now she must lead the free city, trying not to become a puppet of those same secret societies which lifted her to power."
"Corélia, Lady of Estorin / Lareth Brymarr",??? – Elf – Aristocrat/Con artist," Townsfolk have long noticed the striking similarity between Lady Corélia, and local con man Lareth. Fear of displeasing either, however, prevents them from investigating which is their true identity. However, they both seem to have an affinity for archaic literature."
"""Empress Margitte""",F – Dwarf – Drunkard," The 'Empress', as she calls herself, has become a local attraction in the fishing village of Arbell, dispensing her own sort of truth and wisdom from atop her crate in the town market as she solicits coppers from those who take pity or are humored by the elderly woman, beard filled with trinkets of the years."
Tyrell Gwyferon,M – Human – Mercenary," Sick of living in the shadow of his older sister and being the son of a baron's head servant, Tyrell set off on his own years ago, eventually finding himself pike-and-sword in hand in the ranks of the Chequered Band, a company of ill repute."
Father Duma,M – Human – Priest," Long ago, he was Dumatoru, a centaur paladin with a firm belief in the inferiority of all other races to his own. That changed when he met Charal. Now, with the help of a magic talisman, he lives a quiet life (without his equine half) with the love of his life as keeper of a small town temple."
Lzara,F – Wood Elf – Survivalist," Princess Lzaretta Anabella Wembelia of Cypressfell was the subject of a large bidding war between suitors. Her solution? Strike out on her own into the thick forests of her homeland, stating the first of her admirers to find and retrieve her will win her hand. Six years later, Lzara has found a peaceful life among the trees with only her axe and falcon familiar as companions, with no end in sight to the philanderers' hunt."
"Erwolg, the Terrifying (known as Erwin in this plane)",M – Kobold – Lighthouse keeper, A stout man of deep red skin and twisted features. His heavy cloak and solitude in his lighthouse hide the fact he is in fact a demon cursed to watch the seas for a millennium. An expert in chess.
Boaz Oxenrider,Male Human Merchant," Tall, beginner's pot belly, short brown hair, & no facial hair. First generation merchant from a long line of farmers & looking to start a legacy for himself. Protective of close family & sends money back to support parents & younger siblings."
Kanaka Ironshirt,Female Dwarf Fighter," Shaved head, waist length black beard braided into a single rope, & speaks in heavily accented common. First daughter of a matriarchal clan out to prove her worth to follow in her mother's bootsteps. Quietly believes she can do anything better than whomever is doing it & never backs down from a challenge. Insists that Moradin is not the All-Father, but instead it's Moradina, the All-Mother."
Ben Alda,Male Human Doctor," Skinny, dark hair, smart, & doesn't know when to shut up. Conscripted at 20 to serve in a war & taken from his family for 11 years. He was no good as a soldier so he was sent to train under the healers. Always has a story/complaint about the war, a line for the women, & a drink in hand if he can help it."
Milo Littlefoot,Male Halfling Beggar," Slight even for a halfling, the adventuring life was never in the cards for Milo. Born with a lame leg & not able to get a job, he turned to begging. No one notices a halfling beggar & it turns out that's good for the information business."
Caplan the Crooner,Male Dwarf Bard," Taller than average for a dwarf with light brown hair & beard. Deep, raspy voice that sings of loss, love, & the places those two have met. His height made him an oddball amoung his dwarven home & he hit the road to see the world."
Fref Glenaw,Male Human Tailor," Fref is a good businessman who is eager to expand his own business, but will help with many business opportunities he is offered. He abides by the laws of society but if he can bypass them he has it within him to become a sadistic torturer who enjoys screaming. He is in his seventies, small in every dimension, with a bird-like face and swept-back white hair."
Gorb,Male Half-Orc Politician," Gorb is small as half-orcs go, but a talented politician. He is wary of threats to his position and those in his care. He was never a great warrior, but when he fights, he uses strategy and tactics over strength."
Harmin Dangehr,Male Dwarf Captain of the guard," Harmin is a fierce fighter and will send himself to the death to protect those in his care. He uses an enormous greataxe. However, he prefers to defend than to attack, and is in favour of walling people in to take care of them better. He is extremely untrusting, but extremely trustworthy."
Amiko,Female Human Innkeeper," Amiko is middle-aged and of medium build. She does not suffer fools, and is reasonably intelligent, but serves a damn good pint. If there's any trouble in her inn, it ends up on the street sooner rather than later, but she will fight for the right cause."
Amilee Nightfall,Female Half-orc Guard," Amilee is tall, even for a half-elf, with pitch-black hair. She fights for what she thinks is right, but is foolhardy and headstrong, and will fight for a lost cause to the death."
Bzor,Male bugbear guard," Bzor wants to eat the humans, but the humans give him money to hit other humans with clubs instead. Money can buy pigs, which are tasty. Bzor hit what bzor is told to hit. Bzor is good in the woods, and hates other goblinoids he cannot convince to join his own worldview."
Emblem,Asexual Treant Druid," Emblem sees himself as protector of the forest. It despises war and the instruments of war, preferring meditation and mediation. It will teach the PCs meditation if they will allow it to smash their weapons and armour, which will give them extra points of concentration."
Semaphora Underwood,Female Halfling Baker's Apprentice," Semaphora wants so badly to be a sexual deviant, but she has the worst luck with it. She's got a thing for beards, but that just nets her gay dwarves and bearded ladies. She will go to absurd lengths and always fail stupidly."
Herb Amakiir,Male half-elf painter," The son of the butcher, Herb loves to paint, and is very good at it. He gained the skill and passion from his father, but is often told to get back to work on something that will put food on the table, which, when you work as a butcher, is very literal. He paints wherever and whenever he can, out of his father's gaze."
Baldrick Fancyson,Male Human Innkeeper," Baldrick is a human who looks like a short, wide dwarf, down to the beard. He uses stilts when behind the bar. His big bar idea was to cater to the merchant wagons that pass through the city, and he has enormous, well-supplied stables to this effect. He thinks a lot of his bar and keeps it posh, making sure that there are places for mud and rain to be disposed of before entering the common room. Fantastic cook."
Georgina,Female Human Tailor," A heavyset woman of average height, Georgina has an optimistic disposition but tends to be precise and direct when speaking considering the use of extraneous words below her intellectually. She is known for two things, always having the latest clothing fashions and stretching constantly."
Brian Johnston,Male Half-Elf Lawyer," While Brian may have some unusual features such as a gap between his front teeth, slightly worn clothing and a hacking cough, he is a charming and cultured man with a tall thin frame. He wears a set of small spectacles and keeps his hair well greased. His choice of phrases clearly hide second meanings and innuendos and should always been listened to carefully."
Belinda Stoneworth,Female Dwarf City Guard," Working for the guard was not Belinda's first choice of career but her lack of physical fitness prevented her from joining the standing army. She still gets to carry a weapon and has a modicum of power so it will suffice. Loud and surly, she is often found having drunken arguments and fights at the tavern after hours. Despite this, she is a model guard."
Roderick Nestfellow,Male Gnome Barber," Roderick has been a barber for the last 40 years and loves his work with a fanatical zeal. His customers are very regular and are happy to come in for a good shave and a better conversation. Through the years, he has acquired quite a few great tales and rumors and is always more than happy to retell them all with great exaggerations and embellishment."
Roson,Female Dragonborn Performer, Everyone has their preferences and it seems a lot of people love to see a dragonborn dance. Roson dances in a tavern but never unclothed. She loves the attention of locals who find her kind so intriguing. She keeps an observant ear of those shes met and their stories which she then collects in her countless journals.
Eilidh Grace Dickinson,Female Halfling Child, Eilidh has grand dreams of adventure and dragon slaying much to the dismay of his parents. He runs the paths of his village with a stick for a sword slaying the beasts in his mind and chasing off his fellow children. He assaults any adventurer he sees with questions of their exploits before running off to include these new stories into his own.
Isabelle Webb,Female Tiefling Blacksmith," Despite the trappings of her lineage, Isabelle leads a good and quiet life as the blacksmith in a small town. Through her time there, the locals have come to like her even if they don't fully trust her. She has a muscular build and calloused hands from her years of hard work. Her muscles twitch regularly when she isn't working but she no longer notices these things."
Borgard Tortuga,Male Human Sailor," A salty sailor in his mid 40's usually suffering from unemployment and an abundance of stories. Personality: Loves cats, drinking, fighting, and whoring. You can usually find him in a tavern by the docks, he is 5' 9"" of medium build with dark hair and eyes. When pressed he will tell you the location of a secret treasure."
Lumpy Untata,Female Halfling Office Manager," A young idealist who works on a chicken farm, Lumpy dreams of living in a big city. She has a love for reading, sewing, and finding someone to chat with at length. Lumpy is very attractive at 3' 8"" with a nice build, green eyes, and sandy colored hair. She is in touch with all of the town gossip and is a great source of information once you get a few drinks in her."
Kane Firebrand,Male Tiefling Thief," Standing at 5' 6"" with reddish skin and black eyes, Kane Firebrand is not someone to be messed with. Kane can usually be found in the seedier parts of town, committing acts of robbery, theft, and general burglary. Kane has a short temper but is quick to offer his services in exchange for cold hard gold. Beware, if you pry too deeply into his business, you might find yourself on the end of his dagger."
Welby Two-Beard,Male Halfling Barkeep, An idealistic and very gullible simpleton. Has a long beard separated into two braids whicn he might actually believe are two separate beards. Can very easily be convinced to do almost anything.
Orlisk,Male Dwarf Hermit," Salty, irritable, and unlucky, this dwarf was outcast from his clan over a moral dillema at a fairly young age. He has since turned to drink and is unlike to trust anyone. He has forsaken many dwarf traditions, has trimmed his beard, lives alone, and forgotten his family name."
Reardon Sengar,Male Elf Squire," Raised in nobility, Reardon has an overdeveloped ego and falls back on his family name in almost any circumstance. He has a strong sense of morality but an even stronger desire to have things go his way. He rolls his eyes often and is generally irritable and pompous."
The Storm,Male Half-elf Sorcerer," ""The Storm"" is unlikely to reveal his true name. He's young, but not quite young enough to justify wearing all black, being very angsty, and referring to himself in the third-person by a superhero-esque monicker. He makes every attempt to remain mysterious but often breaks the illusion by grumbling about his parents. He is a surprisingly skilled magic-user."
Brando,Male Human Gang Leader, Brando towers over most men and is built like a bear. In any conversation he is looking for an excuse to exert his physical dominance over whoever is talking at him. He is local-famous for his aggression and his wrestling skills. He runs a branch of whatever might be the D&D equivalent of the Hell's Angels.
Vin Vaced,Female Human Beggar," 5' 4"", Brown Eyes(Blind), Brown Hair, Dirty but not unpleasant smelling. Vin tends to hang out around the local inn, shining shoes and collecting tossed coins. Vin was blinded as a child after being hit in the head with a horse's hoof. She is actually the offspring of a local lord, but won't reveal this fact unless pressed."
Sharpey,Male Dwarf Smith Apprentice," Sharpey is a 5ft tall, 50 year old dwarf with brown hair and blue eyes who has no clue about anything that isn't metal or fire. Sharpey is madly in love with the local bartender but has never approached them. He would be very inclined to do a favor for anyone who could point his crush in his direction. The Smith he is learning from is hiding a mimic in his home."
Orel Kao,Male Half-Elf Bartender," Orel Kao is recognizable for his piercings. He draws beautifully and has painted all of the walls in the tavern with murals. He tends to pace and is hot tempered in his dealings with others. If he has a flaw, it is that he has a phobia over being touched."
Veylin Brightwind,Male Human Duelist," A famed duelist from a small island nation, Veylin has taken to traveling the world. With a faint accent, one of his family's twin ancestral swords, and a spring in his step, he jaunts from city to city. Many fans of his are eager to throw parties in his name, an honor he doesn't seem to mind. However, his family back home, specifically his brother, the lord of the island, are none too happy that Veylin took one of the ancestral swords that are rightfully his, and left the line of succession to go off on what is (in their eyes) quite a silly occupation."
"Pallen ""Silvertongue""",Male Halfling Gang Leader," Those who see Pallen for the first time assume him to be a perfectly nice man. Why, he would never hurt a fly. However, those unlucky tavern owners and innkeepers who live in the same neighborhood as him know him as a ruthless man who will do anything for money and power, and half the inns and taverns owe him protection money. But most just see his friendly exterior, a happy face, an easy smile and the famous sharp tongue that gives him his nickname and pass him on by."
Stalwart,??? Warforged Butler," Stalwart is the longtime manservant and butler of a high-ranking lord of a noble family. The one thing that separates him from most of his brethren is his remarkably sharp tongue and cynical and sarcastic sense of humor. No one knows quite how a member of this normally humorless race developed such a wit, but it is clear that his sense of humor is quite developed, often surpassing the wit of his employer. Many fellow nobles call on the employer just to hear what Stalwart mutters under his breath, and several family friends think of Stalwart in as high if not higher regards as they do the actual family."
Adaliah,Female Spirit Caretaker," She is an emissary of the deities, most often associated with those of the realms of life and death as she assists the souls of those traveling from the material world. She may often be seen by the bedside of those who die alone. Her other favorite spots are park benches watching children play or chatting with strangers. Her appearance and mannerisms vary with each account, but all agree on her grandmotherly qualities, doting or disapproving depending on alignment."
"George, the Gregarious",Male Human Cleric," A towering, portly, middle-aged man with a red face, a beard to rival most dwarves, and sausage fingers. George prefers simple robes to armor as he is often seen with a barrel of ale on his back, a stein in his hand (that mysteriously never empties), and his two handed mace that functions more as a glorified walking stick. If the rumors are to be believed, several orc tribes, an arch-demon, a lich, 2 chromatic dragons, and a vampire coven all have on separate occasions halted their plans and entertained guests simply because George's name was mentioned."
Peabody the Strongman,Male Half-Orc Personal Trainer," ""Even for adventurer like you staying in shape hard work. When you make up mind to get strong, Peabody will be there. Like ravenous displacer beast, Peabody will pounce to make you run faster. Peabody will surprise you in sleep for 50 night-pushups. Me work hard so you work hard!"""
Krillee,Male Kenku Orphan," Krillee loves tarts and is known by all the village bakers to be a thief. His all black coloring made hiding in dark corners and alleys easy. Twice already he has tried to join up with a gang of thieves, but both times he failed to pass their test."
Helmaer,Human. Male. Drunken asshole Racist Mercenary.," A massive human, who finds his problems at the bottom of a glass, and solves them either with his fists or his warhammer. Hates elves, orcs, gnomes, and other ""sub-humans"" with a burning passion. A decent, unscrupulous underling-for-hire, but too ambitious to stay that way. He dreams of leading an army back to his fractured, human-run homeland from where he was exiled."
Fetch,Goblin. Male. Abomination.," Once a proud tribe leader, he has had his strength, his memories, and even his name stripped from him. A wizard wiped out his tribe, but needed a servant - he took the broken body of Fetch, and made him into a half-magic, half-goblin abomination. Is replenished and strengthened by being hit with any type of spell - that doesn't make it hurt any less, however. Has escaped his former master, and now lurks in dark forests, preying upon hapless travelers - in a very literal way."
Harold Von Talsken,Male Wizard (High Level) Dwarf," This wizard speaks with a very thick german accent to differentiate himself from his more scottish speaking poor people. He constantly complains about his greatest invention, made to sound as an actual physical magical artifact, being stolen by Llib Setag a human wizard, when pressed on this his invention it turns it out it was nothing but an idea, but it was stolen nonetheless because he can no longer remember what it was. Llib Setag had broken into his mind mansion and stole the idea before Talsken could construct the device. He wants it back."
Llib Setag,Male Human Wizard," A Wizard of fame throughout the land for is useful inventions bringing magic goods to many more people, currently just aristocracy he has plans of using the Von Talsken Device to allow common people the ability to use magic, he just needs to construct it, unfortunately due to stealing the wizard's idea, he has no idea how to go about it. It turns out that most of his inventions and discoveries are stolen and repackaged from others."
Macduff O'Grady,Male Dwarf Fighter," This rowdy mercenary is known for his band of troops known only as Strongmen Incorporated. A collection of the toughest meanest sons o' bitches west of the Greyscale Mountains. Macduff speaks in general strong guy talk, with Ho Ho's! Hyup Hyup! Growls and Grunts. While he doesn't seem all that intelligent his battlefield tactics and his companies drilling techniques make them a terror on the battlefield."
Ishmere Elehan,Elf Female Bard," A bard by trade, a pickpocket by night, an occasional turtledove. She can be found in the wealthier parts of town, usually sweet talking the guards to be allowed to ""busk"" in those districts. She has the dirt on all the noble houses, knows all the affairs (a party in many of them) and has a sizable tithe to the Thieves Guild."
Xume Dalagom,Female Drow Cleric," At a glance, you can tell she's grown up in spiritual community, by her short white mohawk haircut and modest-looking black robe. At young age, she was chosen by Milil, and exiled from Drow society because of that. She prefers physical solution to her problems over magical ones, since she's a drow. She usually hangs out with bards, minstrels and artists, at local theaters and libraries."
Grimey Folkhard,Male Ghostwise Halfling Monk," Back when Grimey was young, his father went travelling into world, telling him stories about a huge treasure he was going to find to make his family back in Shoun live a happy life. Now, with his trusty staff and cousin Jens by his side, he started to travel to the great city of Baldur's Gate, where the destiny awaits him. Along the way he met Aiwin, who became his mentor on the way to becoming a true monk."
Jens Folkhard,Male Lightfoot Halfling Warlock," Ashamed of not being able to keep up with traditions in their community of Ghostwise halflings, he contacted the Great Cthulhu and begged him for his powers. The Great Cthulhu gave him powers, in return for the rest of his life being his pawn in his great return. From time to time, he is asked to do seemingly ridiculous things that supposedly help in the summoning. Little does he know, the things he does today will have effects in the future - some in the closer future, some in further one."
Aiwin Galanodel,Male Wood Elf Mentor," Four dots in shape of a letter Y on his forehead, the short black hair and the charismatic voice. Many people recognize him as the mentor of monks, who left monastery long time ago to spread his word through the world. He cares about his students, and always seeks for more. His secret hope is that one day, he will start his own monastery with his new philosophic views of the world."
Mansel North,Male Human Sailor," When boarding the Red Sunset ship, you couldn't miss this tall pale human with athletic build and no hair on his head. He's got a tattoo of an anchor breaking through heart on his left arm just below the sleeve ever since his wife left him. Secretly, he believes that North Star is alive and that it's calling him. He is too quiet - he doesn't say anything unless asked to."
Arno Bearkiller Kalukolake,Male Goliath Adventurer," Muscular goliath that stomps with each step, yet can move swiftly. He proved his adulthood by slaying Skrämbeorn, the great bear that terrorized villagers. Ever since then he was mistakingly recognized by the nearby villagers of Oxeye as a hero. He once got seduced by a dryad and how has half-dryad half-goliath son G'rowt."
Riva,Female Drow Paladin," She grew up to become a paladin loyal to her kind. Long white hair and dark skin may be classic features of a drow, but what could throw you off is lack of fascination for spiders. She's cold, shy and catious, but also inquisitive about the faith of others, but can tolerate paladins and clerics of other faiths. She talks in sleep about her drow friends she hasn't seen in years and is fascinated by birds."
Maggi Swampbottom,Female (Human...?) Vender," A old, absurdly hairy woman, with grey hair covering her entire body, giving her a sense of mystery. Sells many magical items in her small indestructible wood hut, which can teleport to various locations (such as when PCs enter the town/city). Her wares are usually cursed in some way, and she is completely oblivious to such curses. Some are not cursed, but are usually sold at absurd prices."

Plot Hook Name,Description

"We currently have 65,019 people on this subreddit!"," Hi guys! For this event, let's build some plot hooks! Intrigue is something that's really fun and cool but for some of us it can be a bit hard to generate plot hooks that work well for something like this. And, let's face it, politics is a major part of life. We want our players to have to experience some of it at least. This allows us as DMs to give more realism to our players and to allow them to struggle with other aspects of PC life, other than just combat. It'll also allow for your campaigns to cater to players who want to deal with more of the role-play interaction and diplomacy side of things. As with the other 10k Things posts, PLEASE ADHERE TO THE FORMAT (to make the script for assembling the compiled lists run smoothly)..."
Pantheon Problems," I'll start with an example! So, the two major religious factions have decided that they're sick of the other. While both worship gods of law and goodness, they have decided that the other group is misguided. They are currently placing pressure on the town's leadership to create a law declaring theirs as the absolute power and outlaw the other. This intense dislike of one and another threatens a major civil war as most of the citizens of the town are members of one of the two religions."
Dinner Party," The party, having some recent success, are invited to a dinner party at the mayor's hall. The Mayor's wife pulls one member of the party aside and says, ""Someone here is plotting to kill my husband."" At the same time, the Mayor pulls a different member aside: ""I think my wife is trying to kill me."" Who is telling the truth? Who else at the party has motive? Let the party begin!"
Boar Hunt," The party is invited to hunt boar with the local nobles. This could be a skill challenge for awhile. During the skill challenge, other members of the hunt spread gossip about the others. It is all fun, until one of the nobles is found dead."
Imposter to the crown," The king sends aid to the on going war, an army led by his his daughter. Five years go by and the king dies. Word reaches his daughter and she returns home. The burial and the crowning of the new heir are set for a weeks time in accordance with the law. The following day another women arrives at the city claiming to be the kings daughter. She is also battle scared and also carries the kings seal. Two claimants and a law that decrees someone must be crowned in a week."
Spring Fever," Residents of a normally quiet guild-town have been acting strange in the past few weeks. Men are openly weeping over seemingly nothing. People are dancing in the streets without cause for celebration. Violence has been on a steep rise as well as the townsfolk are accusing one another of heresy, theft, spying, or being an impostor. What could the cause of this strange behavior be?"
The River is Shrinking!, Local farmers and fishermen are in a panic as the river they rely on is steadily shrinking with each passing day. Word of new infrastructure projects upstream may be the culprit. The simple folk of the river valley are powerless to stop the projects. Won't someone intervene on their behalf?
Secret Sanctuary," The players discover a piece of loot on a previous adventure - a pair of blue lensed goggles. When they wear them outdoors, they see a massive stone skull floating over the nearest city. It is completely invisible without the glasses. If the players observe very closely, there are winged creatures flitting about the private floating sanctuary."
Long live the King," A beggar who sits at the kings gate overheard two of the kings servants plotting to poison the king. As he is just a lowly peasant he cannot warn the King, he beseeches the party to do so, but he is unable to identify the servants he overheard."
Hippogriffs are devouring all the cattle, Multiple villages suffer from devastating cattle losses due to reoccurring Hippogriff attacks. The hippogriffs attack because a red dragon is occupying their layer in a mountain near by and they had to flee.
Mistaken Identity, The party arrives at a new town and finds wanted posters plastered around the town with a very close likeness to one of the members drawn on each. The local constabulary quickly descends on the party.
A Bone to Pick," The party is given a quest by highest royal wizard to go into the dark swamp and retrieve an artifact that would greatly aid the wizard in official research. Upon reaching the location, the party finds an old hermit guarding it. The hermit seems slightly unstable, but warns that the artifact is extremely powerful and unlocks the secrets to necromancy (a practice long since forbidden in the land)."
Brotherly Love," The party is given a quest sent down by the king to go to the coast and take out a criminal accused of treason. The criminal stole important documents and plans to sell them to a neighboring kingdom. The party must make haste to catch him before he sells the information. The ""criminal"" is the king's brother, on vacation, trying to stay incognito and get away."
Fading Magic," The adventurers arrive at a quiet village, hoping to seek guidance and wisdom from the legendary Sorcerer who has retired there to teach his/her craft. However, when they meet this Sorcerer, he/she is only capable of completing the smallest spells, and the students have lost their gift entirely. The Sorcerer explains that magic is fading from the region without explanation, and if something is not done soon, he/she fears it will only worsen and spread. The Sorcerer pleads with the adventurers to find the cause of this phenomenon and reverse it. They must be quick about it, for soon they find their own magical abilities weakening..."
Playing Dead, The local theater troupe has been having a serious problem: every actor who plays a particular character in a classic play ends up going mad and committing suicide. The only way to find the cause of this strange curse is for someone from the party to play the role at the upcoming performance.
Lost and Found," The hedge maze in front of the manor has been maintained for decades by a strange elf who speaks in cryptic riddles. Recently, a visiting noble from a nearby kingdom went into the maze and never came out. Everyone who has gone in looking for him has met the same fate. The party must navigate the maze, which leads into the Feywild, where the missing persons can be found having a neverending party with a group of Satyrs."
The Painter's Pigments," A talented painter recently painted a mural of the king. The mural came to life, and now there are two identical kings. The only way for the party to determine which king is real is to splash them both with turpentine."
Birth of the Nothic," A weak young wizard starts to perform small illusions and magical feats for a price: knowledge. First small white lies and inconsequential secrets, but as the Wizard becomes more powerful and can offer more her appetite grows for more of the magical mysteries of the multiverse. Eventually the curse of the Nothic overwhelms her. And it was your tales and secrets from years of adventuring that tipped her over the scale."
God of Goblins," A small community of primeval goblins have selected a member of the party to be their holy deity and savior! This is all good and well, as the party gets to enjoy the many benefits of the unconditional worship, but over time more and more followers are being mysteriously murdered."
The Grand Tournament (General Admissions)," The Grand Tournament is coming up, and the local ruler has invited the party not as competitors, but as arena security detail. They soon take notice that a mysterious noble sponsor sneaking around the competitor's quarters. They may also discover the popular use of performance-enhancing magic, which has been long outlawed by the kingdom and church."
Bardic Inspiration," Patron/guild calls upon adventurers to investigate mysterious events. Several instances of fire falling from the sky (meteors) have been observed, the last occasion left [number] craters in the mountains nearby. Discover who/what is causing these events and what their intentions are. At the annual bard festival, possibly depending on how your bard performs, an elderly bard approaches the party and tells of a instrument that stolen from his master many years ago. He recently discovered its whereabouts. This instrument holds much nostalgia and he will reward you greatly upon its recovery."
Magical Linked Genetic Mutation," Magic has a corrupting or polluting effect similar to modern chemicals. Farmers using magic to remove blight or cure disease in their crops had resulted in unusual flora and fauna. Areas near magical centers (academy, tower, reliquary, library, battles) are hot spots of mutations."
The Pyrrhic Prescience," A traveling loremaster, selling his insights, was recently imprisoned for ""falsely"" claiming the duke was utilizing a cursed artifact. This orb allows the user insight into the near future, but only after the user offers a name of someone they know to a disembodied, whispering voice. The duchy is prospering wildly thanks to the duke's newfound wisdom, but there are rumors of long-established locals beginning to act like completely different people, as well as rumors of travelers who enter the town at night, without lanterns to light their way. A young upstart shire reeve sees the party as safe allies to request help with the mysterious circumstances."
The Rightful Line," A long ago explored and looted dungeon in the hills north of town is now home to a troupe of outcasts and ne'er-do-wells who rarely bother anyone. When a revenant child awakens in the dungeon to again attempt to reclaim the lands taken from her noble family by treachery, the dungeon reactivates to keep her there. One rogue escapes the violent traps, seeking aid in the town, and is vanished in the night. The dungeon leaves a moon-like glow on the horizon of the town at night, but the jarl threatens any exploration of it punishable by death. The rogue's rumor of the revenant spreads, and the townspeople need outside help to discover if the jarl's reign was won through treachery."
The Pine Shrine," Priestess Gwyneth has a problem: As the only cleric in the village the villagers looked to her for leadership but now a new person has been called by a different god. Unfortunately they don't agree on much. If he is genuine that would be one thing but a charlatan would be an entirely different problem. The players must determine (with subtlety if possible, so that Gwynith gets first mover advantage) what he is. Bonus points if they manage to solve the problem ethically."
The Cradle Rocks," The party witnesses a caravan attacked by a high-magic military power (invisible drake-riders, griffon cavalry, or the like) at the edge of their vision. Investigating the aftermath reveals thoroughly dead caravanserai and a cracked crystalline sarcophagus leaking fluid. Whose clone is inside and who would want to get rid of it?"
Regular Joes, The authorities attempt to regulate (and tax and license) adventuring.
The Contractor," A bland-faced, middle-aged man contracts the players to retrieve a priceless artifact from a museum. The artifact is several eras old, dug up from the remains of a civilization long dead. Close inspection of the art and history of this civilization reveals worship of a deity bearing a striking resemblance to the man who hired them to retrieve the artifact. When asked about the coincidence, the man denies any connection to the deity and is only interested in the retrieval of the artifact."
Battle of Wills," When an elderly lord dies, he intends to leave his fortune to his heirs, who are 5 in total. He gifts his will to each of them, to his widowed wife and to his closest business partner. The 7 documents however, are contradictory, making a mess of who gets what and why. Hidden in every will are instructions to find the true testament."
Stone for the mason...," A wealthy merchant has commisioned an artpiece of himself from a mysterious and unknown artist known only through their pseudonym. When the merchant dissapears,, it comes to light he had many enemies and doubt starts to arise to where the men has gone and why his lifelike statue seems to be weeping...."
...A blade for the thief," The party is caught up in a large web of assassins, all set out to kill a wealthy merchant for one of several people. When the merchant eventually finds his demise, their employers start to wonder who carried out the hit, and threats are exchanged."
Letter for the King," On a border region, far away from the capital, the party encounters a dying, hooded man. He claims to be the King’s brother, and has a letter for him. If the seal is broken, the King won’t accept it. Then, the man dies. Consipiring local nobles will try to retrieve the letter (a warning of the conspiration against the King)"
The reversed fable," The adventurers arrive at a beautiful town. The princess greets them, and shows them around. Everything is blooming and gleaming, and the town seems to be prospering. The harsh, horrible truth: the princess and several townspeople have imprisoned a dragon, and are making a fortune selling of his scales."
"Rebels, run!"," A band of rebels are wreaking havok on the countryside. The King asks the party to stop them. Upon arriving at their camp, the party finds them brutally murdered, body parts strewn around."
The Crystal Gems," ?A mysterious and terrible condition is causing quartz-like growths to grow on the victims until it eventually kills them. The condition has since turned into an uncontrollable epidemic, and corpse robbers have been working a bit too efficiently since the start..."
Crooked King," A young and newly named king became obsessed with the idea of eternal life, he brought together the four greatest warlocks in the nation to attempt and grant him this power. As the warlocks begin casting their spell on the king, images of the true god fill his mind, Death. Death tells the king that he will come to his kingdom and his people if he doesn't give him bodies demanded. The king is forced to become corrupt and hire out monstrosities in secret to get Death the souls he demands. The warlocks were corrupted in the process of connecting their king to the God, following him only to be used as tools in the king's quest. A rebellion against the king's murderous ways begins to rise up, they believe him to be insane. The king knows that if they succeed Death with finally bring down his wrath on his people if he is allowed to continue the king will destroy thousands of lives."
An Ancient Perspective," The party has been sent to recover an artifact from an ancient tomb buried in a swamp. What at first appears to be a tall vertical structure reveals itself to be a long horizontal one that has sunken into the marsh, turning 90 degrees on its side and causing every hallway to become a pitfall. The party might be able to get some useful information from the tomb's senile caretaker, although she only can speak and understand a language that died out a few thousand years ago!"
Bugged Out," Stampedes of Thri-Kreen have been running from the desert and trampling crops, causing widespread famine. Who could possibly gain from filling in their sand-pit hives?"
A Brew of Secrets," It seems like the very same barkeep happens to work at an inn in every city the party passes, and he never denies having met them before. How can one dwarf have the time to run inns in three kingdoms at the same time? And why does he only ever accept stories and rumors as payment instead of coin?"
'Freedom' fighters'," You and your party are drunk, after partying hard in this inn. You go to lie down, when you hear a knock on the door. Outside is twenty or so dwarven guards shouting 'come, join us in our escapades in the name of freedom' saying no, they will gag and tie you. No matter what, they guide you to a colesium, where they force you to fight fiendish monsters and brutes. Let the party begin!"
The King’s Aide," The party is asked to investigate when a Lords standing order of gems from a Dwarven mine is not delivered on time. On reaching the stronghold, the party is refused an audience with the king, and is disturbed by rumours of changes in the mine’s operation coinciding with the surprise appointment of the King’s new aide (a sorcerer)."
Village Thief," During their journey, the party stops in a large village looking for a meal. At the tavern they hear a number of the residents discussing the ongoing nightly thefts plaguing the village, vegetable gardens have been raided, livestock - including chickens, several sheep, and a dairy cow have gone missing. Patrols, and some crude traps, have failed to catch the thief, can the party find the culprit?"
Heir to the King, The King died without any immediate heirs. An interregnum is declared and the Council of Nobles is formed to decide on the next king. The party is invited to the council on behalf of the common folk. All of the nobles want someone from their house to the throne and the negotiations seem to be breaking down.
Leaking planes," While the party are going about their adventures, random elements of another plane show up, like an ever burning fire from the elemental plane of fire. If they go to that plane tell them that there is a patch of normal material plane."
Oh sweet Justice," A beloved NPC is to stand trial in this less than reputable piece of mud that calls itself a town, furthermore you have seen the results of their rudimentary form of justice dangling int he town square. He is accused of stealing the scepter of the high priest and this one seems determined to burn and flail everything to get it back. To bad the real thief is still at large, with this scepter, and your beloved NPC is about to be reduced a size category."
Against the Moon and Sea," You ventured deep into the cliff-side dungeon. The former fortress and now resting place of a group of pirates seem totally at ease when you first stepped in. You knew you had 6 hours before high tide would once again flush this place, however after what must have been about 4 hours everything starts to turn against you, can you make it out in time or will your bones be added to piles?"
Cold Hard Ground Below," The feeling and sound of the airship giving away beneath your feet, slowly sinking to the cold hard shores below, it one of the most frightening things you experienced. In the moment you knew what it meant, one of your assailants must have taken out the captain and their combined weight added to your cargo is to much for the ship to bear. The enormous flying reptiles he called Wyvern keep on thrashing the ship, you and your men have to make a choice, save some crew or fight your way to the back to take control over the now rapidly increasing descent of the ship."
Put This On," The city's best chef is making the only meal that brings the city's biggest crime boss from hiding. Your players have gathered all the evidence necessary to finally take him down. As the party gets ready to enter the restaurant, they see the entire wait and kitchen staff exit, grumbling about their former employer. The party's half-elf used to have a lemonade stand. How hard could working one night in a restaurant be, really?"
Greetings... FROM THE FUTURE!," The party receives a warm letter from a wizard they've never met thanking them for narrowly averting a disaster, and for being such good longtime friends. Almost immediately they receive a second letter, this one written in a much shakier and blunter hand imploring the PCs to help fixing the paradox the wizard has accidentally set in motion by sending his first letter too soon and changing history. Twist: The party must at one point fight their past selves Twerst: The wizard is one of the PCs from the future"
The Doctor is in(capable of saving you)," That last bout of adventuring has left one of you close to death, and the only thing that can save you is a potion made from strange and ethereal ingredients (blood from an enemy-turned friend? a rare and mystical herb that only grows near lies?) that you must gather before time runs out! Twist: The illness is caused by an affliction of evil spirits that you have to fight/persuade/threaten out of your friend Twerst: They're making it up to get you out of the city"
Eternal Sunshine of the Draughtless Mind," A very rich widower can't stand being tortured by memories of their dead spouse, and a disreputable alchemist has developed a potion capable of transporting you into their memories. The PCs must wander through from cherished memory to cherished memory and destroy any traces of their spouse they find (kill them at their birthday, replace the spouse with a PC at their wedding) before the potion runs out! Twist: They find memories and information that could allow them to blackmail the widower Twerst: They find out the widower killed their spouse and are under investigation"
Archaeological Opportunities," A group of mages from the local divination school have discovered, through vigorous study of historical tomes, and/or some chance scrying spell, the location of a long-lost ruin. The ruin is very remote and difficult to reach, explaining why it was never found. Because of this though, the mages need you to lead an expedition to the location, not only to confirm its location, but also to make sure it is safe, and to clear any possible threats you come across, in order to secure the way for a proper archaeological team. Possible ruin ideas: Ancient library containing unique information believed to be lost to time
A brilliant historical mage/alchemist/inventor's laboratory, possibly containing incredibly rare/valuable artifacts
Ruined city of a dead civilization, possibly holding clues related to their downfall
A huge device (weapon?) built ages ago by an order of skilled craftsmen
The hidden lair of a legendary ancient dragon, long-since-dead, likely to still contain its undiscovered hoard
  "
Pirates!!," Over the past several weeks, several trade ships due into [city]'s port have failed to arrive. We fear the worst at this point, and something must be done to make sure it doesn't continue. Obviously pirates are almost certainly the cause, so we've prepared an armed exploratory vessel to sail to the last place these ships were spotted. We need you to find the pirates, locate their base of operations, and wipe them all out; no punishment is too severe for those murderous dogs! Potential twist: The cause of the disappearances may or may not actually be pirates.  "
Fractured god," A god has been shattered into elements of its personality, some of them manifesting as items and others as creatures or even humans."
Between a Rock and a Hard Place," After a rough fight, the Party has come across a small group of angry Orcs all too eager to start a fight. As the situation becomes dire, a horn is heard in the distance and a new group of Orcs arrive. Caught in a fight between two rival tribes the Party is left to figure out a way to safely flee without being hit by the Orcs surrounding them."
The Royal Babysitter," The Party is invited to a Royal Banquet held by the town's Mayor/King/Noble as a celebration for their heroic deeds. During the Banquet a fight erupts in the Great Hall. The King/Mayor/Noble orders the party to watch after his spoiled teenage daughter, ordering you to apprehend and hold anyone who dares touch her in any way so that they may answer for their insolence with their death. Turns out the daughter orchestrated the fight and is preparing to sneak out of the Keep/Manor/Hall. How will they choose to protect her now?"
You gotta go all the way to the top," After taking down the local crime syndicate, your party figures the job is done, but a note from a higher up lying on the bandit's desk and an assassin sent after the party shows there's always a bigger man"
A Wizard Is Never Late," Things look bad, and POOF! there's that powerful ally who never seems to be around when things get thick. He's slinging fireballs and lightning bolts and mowing down enemies with his shining staff. Once the dust has settled, the wizard tells you that he made a terrible mistake, instead of going north, it is urgent that you go around to the south. The enemy has sealed off the northerly route..."
Stake Out," You've waited all evening until he emerged from his chambers. You've chased him down into the depths of the castle. The vampire has downed your companions. You're all that's left to stop the cursed one before he marries the princess on the morrow and cements his place as tyrant of the kingdom. The foul thing throws you across the stone chamber, crashing into a wooden chair. You find yourself on the ground with a splintered chair leg inches from your fingertips..."
The Good Guys," The caravan is two days from reaching the city at the other side of the wasteland. It's been a harrowing journey—sandstorms, desert wolves, and mounted bandits. You've repelled wave upon wave have hit the caravan, but you must see the ancient book safely to the scholars in the Golden Temple of the Sun. You will not be able to hold off against the bandits another time. You see a score of riders approaching across the dunes. Preparing for one desperate, last stand, you find a bit of high ground and hunker down behind a row of wagons and tightly tied pack animals. That's when the banners become clear. It's a retinue of Soldiers of Light who have come searching for you. The commander tells you that he will be taking the book the rest of the way..."
Here Come the Heroes," A young lad who's always hanging around your favorite watering hole runs up to you, breathless. Panting, he tells you that your favorite tavern has been taken over by a notorious gang of street toughs. They're guzzling ale and wine and making the proprietor's daughter dance lewdly atop the bar. It's only a matter of time before they ransack the rooms and the cellar and find the valuables you're keeping there—if the proprietor hasn't sold you out already. Rolling up your sleeves, you hoof it across town..."
How big can it possibly get?," A town and nearby forest has been almost completely drained of magic, fey seem especially weak and the more magically aligned seem to even be suffering from a sickness due to the unnatural lack of magical energy. In the forest lies a crazed wizard, driven into isolation years ago after he forgot to feed his pet ooze and it went on a feeding rampage. In the center of the forest lies that same wizard, channeling all the magic energy he can into his ooze causing it to grow to gigantic proportions with an equally gigantic appetite."
"Lights, Camera, Action!"," Once every five years, the ruler of a city will grant someone a special audience and even grant them anything under his power to bestow. The catch? The person who gets the audience has to win a talent show judged by the ruler himself, full of singing, dancing, acting and anything entertaining. Bards from all over the kingdom gather for this opportunity and the competition is fierce. Twist: The king has a very unique taste in entertainment."
Media Rez Goblin Attack," Instead of hook for everyone, give each player a quick sentence or two about their current situation, a goblin ambush on their village. ""Fighter, you keep pushing against the door as the goblins's makeshift batter ram batters against the aging doors planks. The villagers behind you huddle in terror at the back of the church, trapped. Please make a Strength check to keep the doors closed"" ""Thief, under you 4 well armed goblins prowl around your house, poking long spears into your belongings. Your muscles begin to quiver under the strain of holding yourself in place, outstreched between the rafters. You wide eyed younger sister clings to your back, watching the goblins with you. Make an Stealth check followed by Strength check"" ""Bard, 15 children huddle with you in the shed as a large goblin patrol moves by. Terrified, one of them begins to cry. What do you want to do?"" Etc..."
Who Says You Can’t Trust a Pirate?," You and your friends are strangers in a strange land, having worked your passage across the wide sea on a pirate ship. After bunking down for a few nights on these unfamiliar shores, the night watchman hears something. One voice. Then two. Then a hundred. You bolt, making for the shore, where you must create a signal fire, then protect it from the waves upon waves of enemies."
Dragged Back from Death," This is it. You’re on the slab, the cackling lich who captured you raising a sacrificial knife above your throat. Time dilates, and events play out at a crawl. You take one last look down at yourself... and spy a necklace that wasn’t there before. A holy symbol hangs around your neck. Well… it couldn’t hurt, right?"
The Hungry," The Necromancer's first-risen despairs at the endless pain of his existence. His master gave him life - or something close to it - but all he feels is an absence that cries out to be filled. The length of his new 'life' has given him strength and cunning, as well as a place beside the Necromancer's throne of skulls, but he hungers for something more. Perhaps with his master's death he may find an end - one way or another."
The Turncloak," The youngest son of a noble house at whose castle the party is currently laying siege, slips out of the castle and into besiegers' encampment. He offers to open the postern gate to allow the party's forces inside to slaughter his father, his brothers, and their loyal men to end the siege quickly. He asks only that at the end the siege they turn the castle over to him."
The Turnsail," On a moonless night, after ""acquiring"" an ancient elvish artifact from the manse of one of the city's most powerful merchants, the party races to the harbor to make their escape. While rowing out into the bay to meet the ship on which they had planned to sail, they see the ship raise sail and head out to the open sea, leaving them behind."
The Turnsword," Over breakfast, the party receives a note from the captain of a mercenary company whom they have employed: ""They are willing to pay me more. The price is double, or I walk. This is business, not personal."""
The Prickly Princess," One morning after a night of carousing in the city, the party is met by the Watch in the street, clasped in irons, and marched off to a jail cell. The following day, the princess who had formerly been very friendly visits them. She heard about some forays into a certain brothel whose madame has been most slanderous about the royal family."
The Turnkey," A notorious outlaw Beardo the Black has been captured and is now rotting in a cell in the city's prison thanks to the heroic efforts of the party. Early the following morning after a night of celebrating, the party is summoned to the prison at the behest of the captain of the City Watch. When they get there, the captain and the chief gaoler tell them that the outlaw has escaped and the turnkey on-duty has been killed, his head smashed repeatedly against the stone floor. The guards on-duty say that no one has entered or left the prison save the warden, the captain, a few guards changing shifts, and the afternoon turnkey leaving after the now-dead turnkey arrived."
The Turncloth," A priest approaches the party in a tavern one evening. He says he has had it with the hypocrisy of the temple brass, and he's looking for some help to loot the temple treasury. He can get you in, but he'll need help getting back out."
The Dive," After recovering a hard-fought haul in a tomb or ancient ruin, the party arrives back in town to tuck into some ales at their favorite dive bar. Tedd the barkeep greets them warmly. Nilla the barmaid smiles knowingly as she sways around the bar to bring her favorite heroes their usual libations. Halfway through the first round of drinks, the party members start to feel a bit dizzy. Tedd trudges across the barroom and says, ""I had no choice. They arrive right before you did. I'm sorry."" The bar is now crowded with crossbowmen in mail, wearing purple and black cloaks."
The Mole," Gethers the one-eyed, grotesquely fat boss of the Dead Mouse Gang with whom you've worked before dismisses the pair of lackeys that accompanied him to meet you here at this pub. ""Someone is informing on me. Someone on the inside. Lord Commander Hodge has been waiting for us at the site of three of the last four drops from some of our smuggling contractors. We've stayed out of it, but I'm running out of smugglers. I need you to find the mole."""
Turnabout is Foul Play," After enrolling in a tournament of skill, agility, and strength at the behest of their mysterious sponsor, the party discovers that nearly every challenge has been rigged against them. At first, it's simple, petty things; an arrow without fletching, a set of weighted die. But when a steeplechase across town ends in the tragic deaths of a beloved noblewoman and her lover, all signs point to something more sinister."
The Turn of the Shrew," Old Heddy has for years been the go-to gossip for up to date news on the goings on of all aspects of life in the city. For the price of a drink and a little ribald conversation, she could be relied on to dispense a juicy tidbit or two on who may have been seen stepping out with whom, and what dock may have received a secret shipment of godshit. But when the party attempts to pay her a visit in her customary corner of the Heron's Bill, she hisses, spits, and gives them the evil eye; the bartender - a wise man - advises they run."
Turn After Reading," A struggling restaurateur has hired the party to do the unthinkable - sabotage his competitors. A renowned critic of all things gastronomic is in town, and the poor chef's only chance of receiving a favorable review is to shine in comparison to his peers. The adventurers are provided a simple map, a vial of something noisome, and a hefty sum of unmarked coins, and are sent out into the streets to wreak some culinary espionage. When they arrive at their first destination however, they find that the poison isn't just putrid - it's deadly."
"You Live, You Turn"," When a notorious Viscount betrays the party, it comes as no surprise - already wary of traps and duplicitousness, they make their escape from his mountain manor with ease. But many months later, while traveling through a port city, they're alarmed to find a wanted poster hanging from the door of the inn, the windows of the shops, and in the hands of the sheriff's deputies. To add insult to injury, the list of supposed crimes verges on the ridiculous, including things like 'Theft of the Crown Prince's Dreams' and 'High Treason Against the Unified Tonalities of A Flat Minor'. Nevertheless, the local law seems intent on prosecution, and the only alibi they have rests on the word of a man who has already betrayed them once, and seems likely to do so again."
The Poacher," A small group have been hunting a certain animal/magical beast to extinction, and willing to threaten or kill the druids trying to protect their land. One of the poachers is willing to help kill his fellow poachers for the right price/favor."
Under New Management," You return to your favorite inn and/or brothel to find that the original owner of the establishment has met an unfortunate and bloody end. Luckily, their second-in-command and/or assistant has been only too happy to pick up the slack, and they assure you that it will not affect your relationship. Everything seems just a little too neat and tidy..."
No Loose Ends," The party has just killed the Big Bad, and they're returning to Castle Goodguy for their just reward. They're battered, they're bloody, but they're victorious. When they reach the palace, however, someone starts sniping at them from a guard tower. Then two someones. Then the entire city guard. The party has been ordered executed, and the order comes straight from the Crown."
A Change of Heart," A fearsome knight in black armor approaches the camp at night, unarmed and asking for parley. Upon interrogation, he reveals that his master, the cruel king of the neighboring realm, is planning on slaughtering the firstborn of every household. While he would much prefer to kill the adventurers and be rid of their meddling, his honor demands that he seek the help of the most able to avert this atrocity."
Make Her Pay," The youngest son of a noble family hires the party to find and kill a witch who has been warping the minds of the populace. Upon further investigation, the girl is not a witch, but in fact an ex-fiancee who spurned his advances when she learned of his own delvings into the black arts."
Shanghaied," The Horses Replacement is one of the rowdiest dockside inns in Brightbluff, so it's par for the course when a group of rough looking half-orcs invite the party to a drinking contest. The drinks go down easy but win or lose, they'll be drunk and tired by the end of it. Unfortunately for them, the bitter old ex-cavalier who runs this establishment has a deal worked out with the half-orcs and their accomplices, and a discreet set of tunnels under each room wind their way right to the water and their boats. Passing out at the inn, they'll find themselves miles out to sea and suddenly the newest unwilling crewmembers (or slaves) aboard ship."
The Ranger Who Couldn't Catch a Break," While traveling in the forest, the floor suddenly collapses beneath a member of the party, and they narrowly avoid being speared by the ranger hiding within the pit trap. As the ranger stares at them, his eyes widen in fear and he murmurs, ""Oh gods, not again..."""
A Slightly Unhelpful Wizard," As payment for their most recent job, the party is given a bag containing a set of incredibly light plate armor, an ornate stopwatch, and a dagger emanating with a seemingly heatless flame. At the bottom of the bag is a small piece of parchment with an address written on it."
"Onwards, noble steed!"," One of the party's horses - the Paladin's War Steed, maybe? Suddenly turns wild and bucks off its rider, just as they are about to charge into combat. It will not allow its former rider to approach, let alone ride, although other people may be able to lead it."
My Castle Now," The PCs, having acquired wealth and noble standing after many adventures, come home from a hard month's dungeoning to discover that their loyal castellan is no longer so loyal, and has barred the gates against them, claiming the castle as their own. Can they besiege their own fortress?"
Rumors of Betrayal," The party arrives in a city where the King is away on a crusade, but the Queen is still around. They party goes about their business, until after a day or so, they realize that people are starting to stare at them and speaking in hushed tones behind their backs. Sooner or later the party will discover that there is a rumor floating around that the King has taken a lover while off on crusade, and has now sent that lover back to the kingdom for his/her safety. Of course, one of the party members is that rumored lover. Who's behind these rumors? Is there a secret lover trying to shift blame to someone else? Is a lord or lady trying to make some sort of power play? Is the thieves guild trying to stir up troubles to distract from their actions? Can the party stop the rumors? And what will happen when the Queen hears of these rumors?"
Death rides a Pony!," The avatar of Death appears to the party, and tells them he will be taking them all during their next dungeon. Buuuutttt, he will give them a pass if they help him recover his steed, which has been stolen by one of the other Horsemen. The problem is that he doesn't know which of the other Horsemen has his stallion, and so Death expects them to approach each of the other Horsemen about it. Of course the other Horsemen won't just give up info about the theft, the party will have to figure out ways to make the Horsemen cooperate."
Constructing Trouble, A wealthy town has a detachment of Golems that are used in the town defense. A squad of mages builds and maintains these automaton guards. What these mages don't know is that one of their apprentices is in actuality a powerful mage for the opposing side who has managed to make sure during the creation of each Golem that there is a command word embedded inside them to allow him/her to take control of said Golems when the time is right. Such as when the opposing side has an army outside to take the city mayhaps?
Mutiny!," The party are resigned to a week or so aboard The Dowager Bride, working their passage across the Mirror Sea to the Outer Isles. The Captain, Morrun Jake, was loath to take them but has agreed eventually on account of the Bard's sea shanties or the Cleric's blessing or the Wizard's knowledge of Arabay legend, or somesuch. The deal is struck in a dockside bar, after a long spell drinking with the Captain, his first mate, the Bosun, and the Purser. Every day the sun shines, the sea is calm, and the wind is good. Every evening includes a spell at the Captain's table for at least some of the party, eating, drinking, telling stories, gambling a little. The rest get to break bread with the ordinary seamen. In between some work swabbing decks, stitching sails and repairing the rigging, the party has ample time to heal up, learn spells, swap stories, and practice weapons skills on the deck with various interesting sea-dog types. Friendships are made, and maybe some friction too in places. But a quiet interval between adventures is just what the doctor ordered. Until last bell on the third Friday at sea when Black Pete the Purser and Carter the Bosun slit Jake's throat as he sleeps and claim the captaincy. The crew are split and it looks like it's going to get ugly. With the party having good relations with some on both sides, how will the they play it?"
The haven," The party is currently fleeing danger, they conveniently come across a friendly person who offers them refuge to avoid their pursuers. Little does the party know that this person is a sadist/torturer/killer and once they get into the person's house they'll be featured in the new SAW movie."
The healer," Someone in the party has been afflicted by a curse, the local healer says that that person can be cured but it will cost greatly, demanding huge amounts of coin for ""reagents"" and other precious materials the party conveniently has. Once they have given enough the healer will ask for sacrifices, such as pints of blood and pounds of flesh."
The highwayman," As the party walks down a road they're approached by a single -apparently unarmed- shady looking fellow, he asks the group if they're in for a quick buck. Once they agree, the highwayman will tell them that a caravan of merchants is due to pass by that same road in a matter of minutes/hours, but he can't take them on alone. Once the PCs assault the caravan, the ""merchants"" reveal themselves to be bandits, partners to the shady fellow."
The Judas," Have a minor henchman idolize someone in the party, he will mess up once in a while but that's because he's clumsy. The first moment the party starts causing mischief he will sneak out one night and offer guards info on the party in exchange for money."
The Medic," A young person claims to be a medic and it's searching for some herbs to make a cure. He does ""warn"" the group about the dangers they're about to face. Each time they come back the medic needs yet another (more dangerous) reagent for his cure. The ""warning"" could be something like: ""Be wary, the leaves of X plant might be poisonous in a large enough dose"". But he conveniently omitted the massive cloud of noxious spores the plant segregates when threatened."
The protege," A very liked NPC (usually young) who follows the party has his/her own goals, after following them for a while that person realizes that reaching that goal won't come soon. Have a different band of ""adventurers"" appear as a rival match for the party, eventually making the protege"
Lovers," The party encounter a lone young dandy, Joraldo Callico, on the losing side of a drunken fist-fight with a hulking stevedore, Henk. Joraldo, love-lorn and in his cups, had made the mistake of lustily insulting the Scheffer family scion, Konrat Schefferson, within earshot of Henk. He works for the Scheffers. Most of the stevedores do around this part of the docks. Turns out the Callicos (southern hosiery and silk scarves) and the Scheffers (furs and leather from the north) have a long-standing and bitter mercantile feud. But Joraldo, a relatively unimportant young nephew of his family's current head, cares about the feud only in-so-far as it prevents him from marrying the love of his life, Kirstel Scheffersdotor, youngest daughter of Konrat himself. He shows the party the letters she has sent him, and describes how she is practically kept prisoner since broaching the subject of marriage with her father. Her last letter implores him to free her so that they can elope together. If the party can unite the lovers at the Crocus Inn by midnight tonight, they can have a barrel of Callico gold and as many silk scarves as they can carry, plus Joraldo's undying thanks. Springing Kirstel is a big job, and fraught with danger, but, assuming that they successfully deliver the beautiful, doe-eyed, love-struck girl to Joraldo and his surprisingly large retinue in an upstairs bedroom at the designated rendezvous, he will be overjoyed, handing over the reward and thanking them profusely as he suddenly drives a serrated dagger up under Kirtsel's ribs whispering, ""Callico honour! Death to Scheffer dogs!"" into her shocked and pain-twisted face. Whatever way the subsequent events immediately unfold ... How long will it take before the Scheffers get their revenge? Where, when, and how will it manifest?"
Retirement Home For Former Heroes," At a ribbon cutting ceremony for a newly funded home for aged out adventurers, the keynote speaker Mack the Medicocre, has been turned to stone. One of his former enemies finally got the last laugh and used a scroll to turn the semi-famous adventuer into a pigeon rest. The party has to find some of Mack's old enemies and recover the scroll so he can be turned back to normal."
Will He or Won't He," The party receives a contract from the Thieves' Guild to recover a particularly rare jewel, on behalf of an unnamed noble who is sponsoring the contract. The next day, the party's rogue (or the least trustworthy member) is contacted privately by the guildmaster's lieutenant. If the rogue will secretly return the jewel directly to the guildmaster, with the other party members none the wiser, he can collect the entire payment for himself. Will he take the chance? What if the lieutenant offers a path to promotion within the guild? How will he pull it off?"
The Racist," In light of a recent catastrophe, a well-known public figure declares extermination of a minority (tieflings work best here). PCs need not be the minority, but works best if they have emotional connections to the marginalized"
Fried Piper of Hamlin," A bard shows up in a town pushing an Organ (or whatever large musical instrument suits your fancy). He attempts to solve the issue of hunger in the town by playing an extremely fire beat, which somehow magically produces food within the instrument itself that can be retrieved and consumed. However, this act of generosity raises the ire of F&B business owners, especially when paying customers start flocking to said bard for free, better-tasting food."
The Monster's Monster," Just after hearing rumors about the gruesome and unholy rituals conducted by the head of the local Merchant's Guild, none other than Higarth Braedown - the aforementioned head - barges into the tavern and hurries to your table. His paunchy frame and pallid skin clue you in that something has him deeply worried. ""I know you've heard the rumors,"" he begins, ""and I'm afraid they're all true. But worse yet, things have gotten sorely out of hand with one of my underlings. Someone needs to take care of him... Gah, I've created a monster!"""
Applying Leverage," One cool, breezy night, an arrow finds it's way through an open window and into your bedpost. Closer inspection reveals a scroll tied around the shaft, with instructions for kidnapping the family of the magistrate and promise of a hefty sum to be payed upon completion. Suddenly your earlier conversation with the Prince about his holdings being under investigation for harboring contraband doesn't seem so innocent."
Winter Storm Warning," In the market square, a beautiful priestess asks help kidnapping the king's son. She says if they do not burn him alive in a sacrificial ritual, a terrible early winter storm will ruin the harvest creating starvation conditions come winter. Don't worry, she can bring the lad back once the sacrifice is complete."
The Renaissance Man," In a lively tavern, a celebrated bard claims to have been slain seven times and seven times resurrected. The last time he was dead, he saw the location of the lost tomb of an emperor. Fearful of dying an eighth time, he doesn't want to make the journey alone."
The Desperate Father," Along the road, a farmer begs the fighter/paladin/ranger (or anyone) of the party to take his son on as a squire/valet. He's a good boy, but he's gotten into some trouble. The lad has become a bit violent and quick-tempered (almost killed a man with a scythe) since the local priest resurrected him after he had died of a mysterious fever."
The Soul I've Been Waiting For," A handsome witch greets the party on the road. She says she's had a vision of the rogue/sorcerer/warlock (or anyone) rising to become a great prince of the Hells and she is pledging her help in making the ascent. She suggests the chosen one take her as a concubine, claiming she knows secrets for maximize the returns on collected souls."
You Dragonslayer!," The party arrives at a primitive village where the inhabitants speak a peculiar dialect. A local shaman greets them enthusiastically and invites them to meet the chief. A great feast is thrown in the party's honor, during which a trusted warrior who speaks a bit of broken Common relays that there is no doubt that you are the heroes of prophecy who will slay the black wyrm that has plagued the village for generations."
I Dragonslayer!," A wobbly old knight greets you on a forest road. He tells you that you must turn back and go the other way. When pressed, he reveals that he had intended to the slay the dracolich that resides under a hill, deep in the woods, but things got out of hand. He'll gladly share some of the hoard if you'll help him finish the task. His lady wife (a seeress who hates seeing her prophecies fail) will be most disappointed if he returns home empty-handed."
I Am Your Father," The party's cleric/fighter/rogue/wizard is called to a table in a dark corner of the pub. The hooded man sitting at the table says he has need of assistance on an errand of vengeance, some unfinished business. He lowers his hood to reveal that he is the party member's long-dead father."
I Am Your King, A band of outlaws accost the party on a well-traveled forest road. The outlaws defer to a small child among their number who claims to be the allegedly-murdered son of the deposed and definitely-murdered king. He's looking for allies in re-claiming the throne.
A Wizard Is Never Late," That wizard whom the party left for dead in the ancient, creepy tomb just walked into the barroom of the seaside inn. He heads straight for the party's table and says, ""Ah, you're just in time. I have need of you again."" He looks around the room and lowers his voice, ""I may have been followed..."""
Death Is Only the Beginning," After a night at a roadside inn, one of the party members arises having had a terrible nightmare. He dreamed of awakening in the night with a knife with gilded serpents buried in his chest. An ugly woman was leaning over him, twisting the blade. She whispered that he'll die every night until he frees the being that sleeps beneath the waves in a sea half-the-world away. There is an unaccounted-for-scar on the left side of his chest..."
Abraham and Isaac," The warlock of your party is asked by their patron to sacrifice a child, or risk losing their powers forever. Depending on the patron, this could have several win conditions: an Archfey could expect total obedience, but step in to stop the sacrifice before it's completed; a Fiend could watch and laugh as the sacrifice is carried out; the Great Old One might revel in their mental distress, or even expect them to flat-out deny the demand. In any case, they are rewarded for ""passing the test."""
Law and Order: Celestial Victims Unit," A suitably powerful angel delivers a summons to the Chosen One: due to their unwavering commitment to justice, they have been called upon for jury duty. They and the party must pack up and leave for the high heavens to sit in on the trial of an angel who may fall from grace."
Keeping It in the Family," Suddenly, a dragon! The dragonborn (or Draconic Bloodline sorcerer) of the party is singled out, as the dragon in question is their great-great-great-grandsire, who has grown too large to fit in his childhood lair and needs someone who shares his blood to help clear out a band of looters and cart out the treasure to be relocated. As the quest progresses, it's clear that this is not, and really never was his lair."
The Fire Princess," A small humanoid fire elemental asks to be freed from a containing vessel. Once free she may give the party a reward (e.g. a fire ruby witch can be consumed to throw a Fireball or sold as jewelery). She them appears in random fires, such as torches in a dungeon, to talk to the party or give them a small, strange task. Once the players prove their value and her trust she asks them to help the fire kingdom in the elemental plane. The elemental convergence, an event that decides which element will prevail over the others in the material plane for the next 10 thousand years, is near and war is imminent. Plot twist: even though she keeps saying that an era of fire would bring life, light and warmth to the material plane the truth is that no element ever wins the convergence and this is what keeps the material plane balanced. If an element gets an edge over the others terrible things happens on the material plane (a fire era would more likely bring firestorms, heat the planet and start a vulcanic apocalypse)."
Drow Underground Railroad, The party encounters refugees that were helped out of the Underdark by a Drow. They want to save others that were left behind.
The 3 Demons," One of the party members is spoken to by a God while they were sleeping. They foretold that 3 great demons, Behemoth, Ziz, and Leviathan would soon awaken and ravage the lands if the party doesn't stop them."
Hats (and Heads) Off," The players arrive at a town where everyone is on edge following the discovery of headless townsfolk outside town. No one knows what's causing the rash of headlessness, and the town guard would really appreciate it if the adventurers were to figure out why it keeps happening. While investigating, the party finds a fancy hat that looks like the hat a lord or lady might wear. How it got outside of this poor farming town is a mystery. There are no signs of magic on it, and it looks and feels just like an ordinary hat. Unbeknownst to the party though, a clutch of young mimics live in the area, and have learned the neat trick of looking like a hat causes people to pick you up and put you on their heads so you can then proceed to bite their heads off. Is one of the party members HEADed for disaster and decides to put the hat on? Will they discard it and then wonder why townfolk's heads keep disappearing? What will they do when the clutch becomes brazen enough that a half dozen or so ""hats"" line the road?"
Lords and Ladles," A celebrated Dragonborn cook has gone missing on the eve of the spring festival, and the local baroness is at wits end to either find the poor sot, or provide a suitable replacement. To complicate matters further, a series of portents (the appearance of a blood-red star, the blossoming of a long-dead tree in the castle courtyard, the water in the ancient fountain in town square belching forth what appears to be blood, etc.) matching an ancient prophecy foretelling the return of a threatening (but vaguely defined) foe has the local churches and peacekeepers on edge, and some of the more influential townspeople are calling for the cancellation of the festival altogether. Others are hesitant - apparently this is far from the first time the spring festival hasn't gone to plan."
The Voyage of the Mimmi," A village has a stone tower that serves little apparent purpose, and mostly serves as a place for teenagers make out away from the prying eyes of parents and village elders. Recently, however, a large vessel of foreign design has appeared daily, descending from above the clouds to dock with the top of the tower for an hour or two before ascending back into the heavens. The blacksmith's daughter - a wilful creature - left on the ship two days ago, and hasn't returned."
The Thirteenth Warforged," The Thrice-Crowned Emperor has grown old, and his advisors are beginning to worry that the long-delayed discussion of who (or what) should succeed his centuries-long rule will come too late. Noticeably mum on the subject is Thirteen, the last(?) of a series of mechanical servants created for the Emperor in his youth, and closest advisor to His Eminence. Long-silenced rumors have resurfaced that the Emperor's livelihood is directly tied to the wellbeing of the automatons, and the reactivation of long-defunct factories beneath the palace have spurred speculation that not all is as it seems."
The Necromancer, A Mysterious Necromancer comes to your party asking for aid in exhuming dead bodies from the local cemetary. It is unclear what he needs the bodies for but he is offering to pay you with what your heart most desires.
Undead Pest Removal," While imbibing at a pub in town, your group finds a note on the wall from a local farmer asking for help with undead roaming his fields in the night and destroying his crops. Upon talking with the man, he believes something in the crypt on his property is stirring the dead. He is offering your group a hearty meal and drinks, and whatever you find in the crypt is yours to keep."
The Empty Town," Upon entering the town that was supposed to be camp for the night, your party discovers that the town is completely empty. Seeing a light in a church nearby, your party investigates. They find the entire town residing in the catacombs under the church. The party learns that the town has been terrorized nightly by a mysterious beast that eats children, soon the towns population of children will reach zero and the town will wither away unless your party can slay this mysterious beast, whatever it may be."
The Dragon King Awakens," Long ago, before Human Civilization emerged, the dragons ruled the lands. The evil king of the dragons ruled with no care for any of the other races. His ultimate goal was to exterminate anything not a dragon, anything impure. The Dragon was killed by a lone adventurer, inspired by the death of his love. Thousands of years later, a cult has emerged, seeking to resurrect their king, and they are on the verge of success. Will they be stopped, or will the Dragon King rise again?"
Ways and Memes," Someone is drawing the local citizens in unflattering ways, such as the local butcher chopping up local children with the caption ""You dannae expect me to pay for real meat, do ya?"" and posting the pictures in various places around the city. The city guard can't seem to catch the rapscallion, and now the city is offering a nice sized reward to whoever can catch the culprit. Can the party determine who the jolly joker is, or will they instead find themselves the caricaturist's next subject?"
Silence of the Shams," A known grifter and confidence man has been arrested after breaking into the magistrate's private club and declaring his guilt to all assembled, describing at length everyone he's ever swindled, cheated, and/or hustled. He also implicates your party's (rogue/fighter/warlock), claiming that they were partners in all of it."
Three Men and a Baba," A hag has terrorized the fens North of Glynnflldych for as long as anyone can remember, stealing lambs from the farmers and making strange demands from travelers passing along the fen road. The village tolerates her, mostly because the hag keeps the local bullywugs at bay, but a trio of brothers demanding her eviction have rallied a growing number of locals to their side, and they're looking for some muscle."
The chosen... two?," There are rumours of ""The chosen one"" or ""The returned one"" or whatever it is that the party's ""Special Butterfly"" is. Only it's someone else. Some other person is running about gaining fame on the PC's gimmick. The PC may get flak for something they've not done, or suffer scrutiny they don't want if they're mean to be a hidden heir to the kingdom. Is this ""other chosen"" a fake? The true heir/chosen one? A doppelgänger? Is the PC the doppelgänger?"
The Ancient Heir," The party find a Lich at the bottom of a dungeon, and defeat and contain it, although they are unable to permanently destroy it. Amongst the Lich's treasure are things marked with a specific coat of arms. If they investigate, they will discover that the lich was actually the heir to the kingdom, thought lost and dead some centuries ago - and technically Lichdom doesn't count as ""death"" as far as the laws of succession are concerned..."
What Is Dead May Never Die," There is a massive shift in the spiritual world. Clerics of a specific god - including one of the PCs - find their spells have changed overnight - almost as if their god's domain had suddenly shifted. There are other strange signs. Statues or images of their god start to corrode, rot or crumble away. The signs and portents of their spells change. Instead of ravens as messenger spirits, bats. Instead of green flames, blue. Eventually, the PCs learn that somehow this god has been killed and replaced. An epic-level adventurer climbed the difficult path to the heavens and usurped this deity. Can the PCs journey to the Underworld and retrieve the slain god? Or will they throw their lot in with the newcomer? Even if they do manage to resurrect their god, will they be changed by their time with Death?"
The Rat Pack," The party is wandering the roads, when they encounter a minstrel troupe, who ask where the party is headed. No matter which way they say they're going, the troupe says they're headed in that direction as well, and could they travel with the party as they're feeling a little nervous since the mercs they were paying to guard them, betrayed them instead and ran off with the troupe's money. Even if the party refuses them, the troupe will follow them closely, when confronted, they will admit that they're scared the mercs might come back and finish them off, or some other menace might get them. So, by staying close to the party, they hope things will be scared off. That night, while the party sleeps, the party member(s) on guard will find themselves suddenly attacked with a concerted barrage of mesmerize, charm, sleep, or other mind affecting spells. It turns out that the wandering troupe is actually a traveling group of Were-rats, who do this regularly to adventuring parties, caravans, merc companies, etc. Can the party survive the were-rats treachery? Alternatively, if your players are too suspicious of the troupe, you could change it so they really are a minstrel troupe that has been treated badly by a merc company, and that merc company is coming back that night while the groups are camped to finish the job. Let them get all fearful of the troupe, and then surprise them with the mercs instead."
The not-doing-so-well Well," Water coming from the well has become increasingly red, and has picked up a distinctly metallic taste. This, combined with the increasing rates of disappearing villagers has the locals worried"
The Holy Grail, Rumors of eternal life have bounced around for as long as anyone can remember. But only recently has a once-great and now exiled theologian posted a reward for it. He even claims to know of its general whereabouts.
The boiling sickness," The local miners think they've found something dangerous. The further deep they go, the worse the symptoms get. It starts with a rash, and general aches and pains, and moves to internal bleeding of the lungs. Recently, a cave - in was reported, and when the bodies were finally recovered, they were covered in red, swollen boils. Everyone is afraid to return, and some think the source is magical. A local wizard is interested in the truth."
The bishop's ring," A bishop from a long forgotten city has appeared in the history records at a bards college. Legend tells of it'd magnificent beauty, and hints at its magical prowess. It seems that after the bishop received the ring from the ""One True God"", he was able to communicate directly with the diety. An order of paladins wishes to recover the artifact, and will pay a handsome sum to anyone willing to explore the ancient ruins."
EDIT:," It seems that on a large, remote, and tropical island, one Lizard folk is in the mood to unite the tribes. He has taken to slave labor, and is currently constructing a pyramid for him to reside inside. The main - landers fear the uniting of the tribe, and want him buried in his tomb as soon as possible."
The Mating Somethings," Haphazardly pinned to the inside of the tavern door and seen on their way out is a torn piece of paper asking for help with vermin harassing a local farmstead. ""Could be .. (the pages is smudged heavily here). Paying well for help! They are ruining my fields!"""
Godly Gaffe," A priest or priestess had been tasked with guarding a special item until their deity's chosen one arrived to claim it. Well, the chosen one has finally arrived but the holy guardian has already given the item away, very recently! What could have caused the mix-up? Maybe the false prophet used trickery to gain the guardian's trust, maybe the guardian was confused/biased, or maybe there are multiple ""chosen ones"". This adventure could end with the party reclaiming the holy item or meeting and recruiting the additional chosen one."
Unfortunate hookup," While slightly drunk, one of PC hooks up with some beautiful woman. Next day, he gets an invitation to duel at 7 am in front of the town."
Dancing troll, Out of nowhere a wild and dangerous troll appears. But he is only dancing because magic shoes force him to do so.
Giant flood," Out of nowhere, giant river springs in the middle of the city, destroying all of it. Local wise man claims only great magic or portal could create such river."
Ogre danger, An extraordinary huge ogre destroyed a small village and some nearby farms. But he only wanted to play...
Feed the Beets," While travelling, they hear a call for help from a nearby field of crops. There, a young farmer is being attacked by a Blight. After saving the farmer, she offers the party a visit to a local fairy spring in exchange for helping to find why her crops have gone mad and started biting. This sets up to a fight against a large Blight or evil Treant."
Long Live the King," The party encounters a revenant whom they recognize as the recently deceased king, who supposedly died of natural causes. The king's successor is only a few days away from his coronation ceremony. Something seems to prevent the revenant from revealing the real circumstances of his death."
Arcane Wreckage, News of a shipwreck reaches the ears of the party. This ship however was built to house a huge magical weapon and is now available to whoever gets there first.
Ribbit Season, A local rare frog breeder has been deliberately poaching wild frogs so that he has a monopoly on the lucrative hallucinogen the frogs sacreet.
Snake on a Plain," On a barren plain, a deadly Bone Naga has been terrorizing travelling caravans. They are sick of this snake and so they resort to contracting the party to hunt it down."
The Nightman Cometh," Rumours of The Nightman circle the town, saying he is starting a cult on the outskirts of town. The Nightman is a nocturnal monk that said to be a master of martial arts. He has cat like eyes that he uses to peer into people's dreams, corrupting them, causing a wave of nightmares through the populous. Whether these rumours are factual or not, a cowardly noble has put out a bounty on The Nightman."
Forest Grump," In a small forest town, a general store has been burgled by bandits. The vindictive owner now feels powerless, so he decided to train until he is ready to take the down the bandit camp himself. All day he runs through the town, silently, leaving his store closed. The town needs his store to open, but the owner just keeps running."
Club for Fighting," In a largish city, the party is invited to a secret, underground Fight Club ""Club for Fighting"" that has recently started up. The only problem is that one member won't stop bragging to his friends, which is explicitly against the rules. The party is asked to resolve this."
Taxing Winds," In a small farming town, the nights have become unseasonably cold and stormy, affecting the crops. The townsfolk point to three white dragonborn sorcerers, who have all only been seen while in the presence of the area's vicious tax collector."
A Demonish Dillema," The soldier in a small castle has been possessed by a demon, and he is told to overtake the castle in the name of said demon. He poisons the ruler and the ruler falls into a coma. The soldier starts recruiting any and all bandits/trouble makers that find their way near the castle, and begins his attack on the castle."
An Eye For Trouble," While entering town, the group is accosted by a one-eyed man who asks the adventurers to get his eye back from a wizard who stole it as a spell component for some new spell she was researching. The only problem is that she's traveling with a company of Mercs, who don't take kindly to someone troubling their company mage."
The Night Unremembered," Awaking sore and disgruntled, the party finds themselves locked away in prison on charges of murder and a number of petty misdemeanors. The penalty for murder is the noose. The party must convince the grizzled old magistrate of their innocence and follow their midnight murderous meanderings to uncover the truth."
The Road Less Traveled By," On their adventures, the party stumbles upon a fork in the road. Splitting to the left is a road worn with years of travel to a well known port city. The other path appears brand new and untouched. Mysterious lights flicker in the distance."
Murder Most Fowl," A string of killings occurs in the local village. Every morning a body appears in the square horribly mutilated by numerous small blunt objects. Despite attempts to catch the culprit, the town watch reports never seeing the crime happen or having fallen asleep at their post. At the scene of the crime is always a duck with a blood crusted bill."
The Roadside Wager," A pair of wealthy looking gentlemen can be seen having a good-natured argument as they travel down the road. Recognizing the party as adventurers, they bid the heroes settle a matter from their own ""wilder youth"". One believes the treasure they sought in a nearby ruin was never there to begin with; the other is sure had they been more skilled in those days they would have prevailed. They are no longer interested in the treasure, but who is right."
Chained Green," Near a farm at the outskirts of town, the heroes encounter a single emaciated goblin. The pitiful creature is clad in a single rag, and the lash marks it bears tell of its time as a slave. The goblin and its tribe have been conquered and enslaved by the local village. The newfound peace and extra workforce is allowing the settlement to boom."
Strange Customs," After a very merry night with some traveling gypsies, the party awakens to find that according to some vague tradition, they have adopted one of the gypsies. It is now their responsibility to take them into the wastes as part of their coming of age ceremony."
At A Loss For Legacy," The only local ruling families to ever keep their hold on the throne had heroic bloodlines. The baron and his wife have the wealth, political skill, and connections, but not a drop of heroic blood. It is a well known rumor that any adventurer who can gather some fame with their exploits will spend time in the lap of luxury as a court concubine. Then again, I did only say the baron's family seeks to add heroic blood, didn't I..."
"Golden Years, Golden Child"," A man near crippled by old age begs for your help. He tells a story of how he was a chosen sacrifice and his youth was stolen. If the ones who did this were dealt with, he would become a child again. At least he thinks so. See, the problem is even magically aged old men have trouble remembering things, and now this chosen one isn't that sure on the details..."
Not Quite Special Someone," You've just finished looting adventuring in that old crypt when you are approached with a reward you were most definitely not expecting; an arranged marriage. Turns out that old king had a habit of speaking in metaphor and a court wizard who took things literally. ""A commoner will marry into this family when he pries the rings from my cold dead hands!"""
Balance," Rumors abound, whispering of one rising in infamy just as quickly as your own glory grows. They appear to be your opposite in nearly every way; tactically, morally, physically, only the same in power. Is it coincidence, or prophecy? Whatever it is, this antithesis of yours seems to be drawing closer."
Resurrection gone bad," First post wasn't on topic, so I'm back for more: Of course, not all resurrections are made equal. Sometimes the plant reagents have gone bad, or the wrong ones were picked. Sometimes the person had been dead for too long. And sometimes, like this time for instance, part of the characters soul was invaded by a parasite upon reentry into the physical world. Slowly, she loses the spark of life. She can still move, still talk, and is as strong as ever, but her voice has gone flat and her appetite has disappeared. At first you thought it was some sort of depression, but then last night happened. Out of the blue, her magic stopped working. The high counsel of wizards suggest you kill her again, and capture the soul as it leaves her body. This way, you can separate host from parasite, but of course, this is a dangerous, and risky process. And hasn't been tried for many centuries. Books will need to be dug up from ancient tombs, and long lost reagents found. This'll be a long one, but your characters very soul is at stake. Better act fast before there's nothing left!"
What happens when you revive a human sacrifice?," Well, it turns out it depends on the diety. Some are more than happy to oblige, but others, the darker gods, want to keep what's theirs. And they punish those who would try to steal from them. And this one happens to do so by raising the dead. If you can take what's his, he can take what's yours."
The Chosen One?," Since birth, you were told you were the chosen one. The ultimate mover and shaker of the centuries. Only - now you've lost your one-ness. It seems that you've been possessed, and this creature, this seed, this thing inside of your mind, digging and burying itself further inside of your consciousness, thinks that you're not the chosen one. It is. You find yourself acting in your sleep, unable to remember what you've done. Sometimes it takes over during the day, and you can't come close to fighting its power. It acts in ways you would never imagine, and seems to be planning something against your will. It pushes you to accept quests, and reject others. All with one thing in common: blood magic."
To bring him back? Or just make another?," Resurrections aren't easy you know. They're expensive, and a time consuming process. And it doesn't always work. But you've heard tell of a cheaper way, Cloning. A wild outcast of a tinkering gnome thinks he's found a way to clone living tissue. All he needs is a spell which will extract the memories from a living being. Such a shame that the only wizard who knows of such things is evil, and living at the top of a tower a long, long way south."
"But really, what's the difference between necromancy and resurrection?"," That's what Elbert asked himself while studying his ancient tombs over 40 years ago. ""Isn't necromancy giving life to what is already dead? And shouldn't they do what I bid? I was the one giving them life. I was the one who put purpose back into their cold and rotting corpses. It's a small cost to pay, and I'll free them eventually! All I have to do is find a way..."" Or so he told himself. 40 years later, and he's hidden himself away in the catacombs, surrounded by the dead, and all alone. He believes that he can fracture the soul of a living person, and give it to the undead. Little does he know, he's making a lich that MUST be stopped."
"Robbed, then Framed"," Inside a busy town, the party is robbed by a passing vandal. Following a small chase scene, detailed with the typical cart dodging and stall vaulting, the party will catch the thief in some dead end alleyway. Palms up, swearing no trickery, the thief will return the party's stolen belongings. The thief will also helpfully forfeit some of his other stolen wares as well. Returning to the market place, a well armed group of guards will stop our merry band of adventurers. ""In the King's name, your are charged with breaking into the high vault of the Royal Treasury. Stand down, criminal scum, and accept your punishment - death!"""
Royal Getaway," The Prince/Princess has never left the extent of his/her kingdom, and is interested in learning about the faraway lands detailed in his/her history books. Of course, the King and Queen hardly want to see their precious child runaway into certain danger. The Royal Child is offering an ample sum for the party to take the prince/princess as an additional member of the party. Be warned, however, should the Child encounter any danger and not return unharmed, the wrath of the Kingdom will fall against our fair adventurers."
Pirate Band," Sailing throughout the Seven Seas, there lies pirate band, pillaging all that they please. The watch has been called, a bounty is set, the whole kingdom moves to oppose threat. Yet, fair adventures, know this to be true! Beware of their captain, else he'll run you through! A bard of wicked rhythm, a rapscallion musician; He'll crush any pirate hunter's foolish ambition!"
A Funny Thing Happened on the Quay by the Forum," A merchant from a distant city has arrived, swathed in acres of silk, and has managed to simultaneously undercut and outprofit nearly every fishmonger on the quay, seemingly overnight. No self-respecting angler will admit to selling fish to the foreigner, and the local guild is considering artificially inflating the price of seafood so that other merchants can compete. More troubling, several of the waterfront's resident urchins/couriers/pickpockets have gone missing, and reports of dark shapes in the water have caused the watch to establish ban on swimming."
All's Quiet on the Warlock Front," The sudden reappearance of the Warlock Prince after almost twenty years abroad has the arcane networks abuzz, and hedge wizards, hermit sorcerers and socialite bards alike have been invited to attend the ceremonial recrowning. Conspicuously left out? Your (wizard/warlock/sorcerer/bard/cleric)."
Ravenloft and Greyhawk are Dead," Simultaneously, every creature in every facet of existence hears the same plea - ""The Planes are Dying! Woe! The Planes are Dying!"" - followed by an empathetic barrage of every emotion conceivable. It's over almost before it started, and only a select few are able to stop gibbering for long enough to parse the meaning of the message."
A song to follow," After a long day on the road, the party settles in a small, lively inn. As soon as the party's bard starts playing (or, if the party lacks one, the local fiddler), a beautiful, yet eerie woman starts singing strange lyrics to the melody that describe a way through the local country side to an abandoned house and end with the words: ""Party Face's Name found the lone hound's hall / and recognized it well / and by the very last breath's call / they ended the demon's spell"". The mysterious singer cannot remember anything, but will repeat the words when the tune is played again."
The Cursed Coin," In the middle of the path ahead of the party lays the body of an old man, with a large gold coin clutched in his cold hand. At first glance he seems dead, but once any one of the adventurer's touches the gold coin, he rises into the air with glowing green eyes, as the coin fuses with the palm of their hand. A booming voice emanates from the old man and informs them that they are now cursed to carry the Coin of Mammon (Demon of Greed) until they too die. With this the old man crumples to the ground in a heap. On further inspection of the old man, a map is found, the destination of which merely says ""Mammon""...."
The Thirsty River, A mother and child rest at the side of the road suckling on sweat soaked bandanas. When they see the adventurer's they ask for water and tell them about a curse that's been laid on the town just up the road. The river flows with fresh water but when the water enters a person's mouth it turns to sand. A local coven has cursed the town for breaking a deal with them.
Mirror Image," A covered mirror, found the by the party, turns out to be magic. It shows a glimpse of the future (based on the character's background) by altering the appearance of whatever is reflected in the mirror (this can be the appearance of the character including physical features or clothing/equipment, or the surrounding location). Characters roll a d20 to determine how good or bad what they see is (the lower the roll, the worse, and the higher, the better). At the end of their vision, a second d20 is rolled to determine if something they saw (such as a scar, wound, armor, or location effect like a building behind them being on fire) is permanent in the real world (10 or lower, something is permanent, 5 or lower ensures it is something bad, a critical 1 requires it to be a serious injury, and a critical 20 provides a powerful boon). One character sees a vision of himself shattering the mirror. Any attempt to shatter the mirror fails - it cannot be broken by any standard means."
A Kitchen Nightmare," The city is abuzz, as word has spread that a great and world famous chef, Riordan Gamsy, has come to the city and will be cooking a meal for the king. But, in order to cook this exquisite meal, he will need exclusive and rare ingredients procured for him, and sure enough the kingdom hires the PCs to acquire said ingredients. The list is full of hard to obtain ingredients, such as a moss that only grows on the bodies of zombies, and the meat of a Bullette, etc., you get the point. But, after gathering all these ingredients, and bring them to Chef Gamsy, he has to admit to the PCs that he doesn't actually know how to cook very well. He's a con man who just kind of stumbled into this gig of being a world famous chef. He makes lists of ingredients that he knows no one in their right mind would ever gather, and lives off the generosity of the king/queen/etc. while waiting for the ingredients to be procured, and then when they fail to procure the ingredients, he gets huffy, says he will not compromise his art, and then moves off to the next kingdom. No one has ever been able to get all the ingredients before, and he doesn't know what to do now, as this lord will actually be expecting him to create a mind-blowing meal with the ingredients the party has gotten. First he'll beg the party for help, but if they refuse he'll threaten the party, saying that if they don't help them with his situation he'll tell the lord that they were in on the scam as well, and they'll all go to the chopping block together. What does the party do?"
Friend of the Family," A stranger comes-a-calling, and requests to speak with the PC's late great relative of some kind. PC explains that relative has been dead but you recall hearing stories of Aunt/Uncle stranger name, yet they look as though they haven't aged a day. The stranger is struck with WoE for with as many years they've spent on this plane, they often forget the passing of time. (Family Friend is either Revenant/Vampire/Lich...etc.) They came to call upon your deceased relative because they require aid. Perhaps the PC will be willing to answer the call?"
Lost Heir(s) to the Throne," Old King Zac has no trueborn children. So when he dies, agents of the kind arrive in your far-flung village, and reveals that you are in fact the long-lost bastard son of the king! However, the old king got around. There are dozens of other bastards, of all ages and races, half-orc, half-elf, tiefling, aasimar, oread, undine, plain old human, dhampir, on and on. The king's ministers declare that all of his heirs shall vote to choose the heir to the kingdom from amongst themselves. A vote shall be held at the end of each day, until one heir holds a plurality of votes. Murder of your half-children disqualifies you on the spot. Go! Compete with your half-siblings for the ultimate power in the kingdom! The king's will demands it!"
The Roadmage," A mage covered deep in cloaks and his two guards ride up to the party while they travel and ask if they can join until [name city]. He does not want to pay or anything and will ride in silence behind the party, even his guards seem very silent."
The Noble Bullies," Every peasant parts way as this group of three nobleman's sons walk through with their personal guards. A young street kid does not see them in time and falls to the ground when he runs into the middle one. This nobleman's son immediately challenges him to a duel and one of the others throws him a rapier, when he picks it up it is clear that he never used one. The guards turn away and form a haphazard circle."
Mushroom harvesters, Early in the morning in this small hamlet the party wakes up from hush voices and the sound of rolling barrels. When looking out from the barn where they stay they see a small squad of goblins rolling in barrels into the towns center. When given time people from the houses come outside and walk up to them like it is no big deal and trade freshly found forest mushrooms for jugs of milk and pieces of woven cloth.
The drunken troll," When walking upon an off-road stone bridge between villages sits and old troll, he is singing and is drinking from a barrel. When the party comes close he demands wine and ale for the crossing. He seems very sensitive about the state of his bridge, he thinks it is beautiful."
The best salesman," A street merchant stumbles up to strangers and asks if they want to buy special medicines, potions and charms. When you even listen for a moment he will lock onto you and start to sell you random stuff, he is very charming but a bit to up-close for comfort. It is like he is using magic to compel you to buy buy buy...."
A small mistake," When walking through a crowded city street two large men left up the smallest party member under the armpits a few inches of the ground and without hesitation move through the crowd towards an alley. A shady figure is waiting there, is there some kind of mistake or is this a blast from the past?"
Lives at Stake," In a small hamlet they players encounter a very helpful man, they are allowed to sleep in his barn for the night. But have to promise that whatever they do they do not come in his house. When (yes, I said when and not if) they do they notice a woman, clearly his wife. Thing is, she has a wooden stake through the lower part of her neck, it looks painful and she can not fully turn her neck. Anyone ever heard of a Pointanak?"
A Sword's Mind," It is your normal Ogre hunt job, you get told where and when it will be anywhere and your job is to poke enough holes in it to make it stop moving. You never expected these enormous pit traps and the ambush when he jumps forward with to much grace, swimming with a large part of a tree trunk. But what is that, glistening inside this enormous wooden beam, a sword deeply embedded shining like the day it was made."
Beauty hides Betrayal," Travelling through a thick forest, it starts to get dark but open spaces are rare. But the party stumbles upon one, a large rotten tree flattened against the forest floor, overgrown with purple flowers and surrounded by a few meters of open space. The smell of the flowers is insane, insanely hallucinative. When paying attention old remains of animals litter the underground, turned to fertilizer...."
The Beggar," An old homeless man approaches the party looking for some spare food/change. If the party takes pity on him, he reveals himself to be a wizard that has fallen on hard times and grants them some kind of magical benefit for a short period. If they dismiss him, or act harshly toward them, he curses them, turning their (entire party or just particularly cruel characters) tongues to stone before vanishing, making it so those players can no longer communicate with words. The party must then find him to remove the curse."
The Macabre Potter," Travelers, indigents, and thugs have been disappearing from the village recently. At the same time, a local potter is gaining fame for the unearthly red glaze he manages to get on his pots..."
Gambit Pileup," The PCs are hired to infiltrate a nobleman's party. Unbeknownst to them, at least four other groups of adventurers are hired to crash the same party, each after a different goal."
Really Low Level," The PCs are hired to clean a local magical fixture. Normally this job would be beneath an adventurer's guild, but there are just so many adventurers these days."
Evil Has A Place," Representatives of several evil cults, religions, and social groups are protesting and campaigning for the king to grant them equal status to all the good and neutral gods, religions, and social groups, claiming that Alignment is Not A Choice and since their gods are just as real as Good Gods, they deserve equal representation. The PCs are hired to guard one of their rallies."
Almost Magical Goods," A local merchant approaches the PCs to help him out. He swears that someone has replaced his magical goods with ""almost equivalent"" versions - a bag of ""sort-of"" holding, a belt of somewhat useful items, potions of temporary healing, etc. The city merchant's guild is threatening to put him out of business for swindling customers, but he swears he's being set up."
Death and Hexes," An eccentric wizard dies and leaves behind his tower. He has no heirs and no will, and the city wants to claim the property and auction the contents of his tower. However, the wizard was a bit of a hoarder, and the contents of the tower are starting to interact with each other. The city guards refused to go near the place after the front garden sprouted tentacles and started attacking."
Don't Drug the Sorcerer," After drinking a spiked beverage, a powerful wild mage has unwittingly trapped a small village in a nightmarish dreamscape of hallucinations and figments of his drugged imagination."
One Man's Curse, The PCs help remove a simple curse from a tormented young man. A lecherous (and powerful) Countess disapproves of their actions - the young man was cursed to be the World's Greatest Lover and the Countess had just found out about that...
Old Traditions," A small town has a tradition of cutting a young maiden open, staking her intestine to a tree, and having her walk all the way around it. Supposedly this tradition placates some ancient beast who used to terrorize the town centuries ago. This year, it's the bar maid at a tavern the PCs frequent."
One for One," People are dying under mysterious circumstances in the capital city, and the healers & clerics can seem to find no cause for their deaths, as the victims just drop over dead for no apparent reason. Of course, what the town doesn't know, and the PCs are going to have to find out, is that an evil Lord has found a way using dark magic to resurrect the dead, but the cost is the life of another in the area. This Lord is currently busy in the catacombs underneath the city, using the dark magics to raise an army of the evilest, vilest, most loathsome individuals interred there, to help him take the capital, and the kingdom, and in the process he's killing the victims in the city above as collateral damage."
The Dead Spider," A famous retired spy-master has been murdered by a gang of apparently random bandits, and his famous amulet of scrying is gone. Track them down to their camp, fight them down and take the amulet back to its rightful owners! Or just hold on to it."
The Celebration," The party has been invited to a local celebration! Dress to impress, and be prepared for drinking, horseback riding, archery, and combat competitions"
The Abduction, A local's daughter has been kidnapped by the denizens of a nearby area. Recover her before hope is lost
The Ritual, Cultists have been gathering materials and setting up a sacrificial altar. Apprehend them before their evil plot unfolds
Stolen Valor," A beggar comes up to you on the street. He claims that he is actually a well-known local hero, and he has been replaced by a witch who cast a terrible curse upon him"
The Treasure Hoard, Word has spread that the guardian of a vast treasure hoard has been slain. Do you have what it takes to claim it for yourself?
The Mummy," As you crest the sand dune, you see a small pyramid below. The doors are completely sealed by some magic, but the symbols on either side of the door are vaguely familiar. You remember seeing them on the tomb of a mummy on display at your local museum, perhaps that old pile of rags and bones knows how to get in?"
The life tree," An elf with tousled hair and leaves hanging from his strange armor jumps at you from out of nowhere. He thrusts a small, frail looking, potted plant into your hands and says ""You must be the one I was supposed to meet, here take it! Remember to only plant it at the right place under the right conditions, and hurry or the world won't live to see another summer!"" He then turns into an eagle and soars away, leaving you with the little potted tree."
The Werewolf, You come upon a town that looks like it has been attacked by savage beasts. The townsfolk tell you of a Werewolf that has managed to kill all the Alpha wolves in the forest and now has all the wolves following him. With 20-40 wolves under his command this Werewolf commands them like an army.
An attempt on the King," The king was attacked from afar with an arrow. Thankfully one of his men jumped in front of the arrow and saved the king. Upon inspecting the arrow the kings men tell you that the arrow is dwarf made, but the feathers come from a rooster. You heard earlier that a shipment of arrow shafts and heads got stolen from the Dwarfs and there is a town nearby called Roost where everyone is a chicken farmer. There they can find a man called the cockslayer who slaughters old roosters. He must have supplied the attacker or attackers with the feathers for their arrows."
The Vampire, He does tell you that all the victims have been seen attending the noble parties of the Blackbriar history society.
The drug crazed dragon," Two dragons have been known to slumber in the ruins of an ancient city for a long time. Aztorkin or Venom, the Green Dragon has been breathing his toxic fumes into the old sewers of the city for many years, to make sure no one can attack him from below. Kartharnix or Acid, the Black Dragon has slumbered for long on the other side of the ruined city. He has many slaves under his command which he sends into the sewers to mine the green hardened resin of Venoms toxic breath. Acid has figured out that when he slowly melts the resin with his acid it creates a vapor that fills him with ecstasy. However recently Acid learned that his neighbour Venom had been slain some years ago, and when his slaves informed him there was no more resin to mine, the dragon went insane. Supposedly he now tears the city apart frothing at the mouth, melting stone and steel in search of his fix. Soon he will direct his anger elsewhere, if he is not stopped."
The Swamp Thing, A recent flood seems to have had an effect on the swamp surrounding the local lighthouse. The lighthouse keeper has filed complaints that the Bullywugs living in the swamp have gone from their usual bumbling selves to an organized terrorist group! Something must have washed up in the swamp during the flood that has the bullywugs organized. The lighthouse keeper warns that if they are not stopped they might become a serious threat.
Dr. Fenkerstin's Monster," You find an ancient coin that looks nothing like you have seen before. It's dated more than 600 years ago, and instead of bearing only the crest of the royal family on the back, it has an emblem with the royal families crest and 3 other crests from families you do not know. A lot of things have gone missing near the old Gnome wizards house. Not a lot of people go near it since the old gnome was found mauled to death in his laboratory. Not that people went near it when he was alive either. However a woman nearby has had all her threads and needles stolen repeatedly. Another woman reported her wedding dress missing. A few people have gone missing too and there have been reports of weird noises around the old house."
The Spectral Inn," You are starving and parched from long travel without nourishment. Walking into the first tavern building you see, you notice immediately how empty it is, and the innkeeper greets you enthusiastically, talking your ear off about a story you never asked for. As he gives you food and some time passes, you notice the wood slowly warps, cobwebs appear in the corners, and light dust has made its way onto the surfaces. As you finish your meal and make your way out, you find that the innkeeper is nowhere to be found, the doorway is boarded up, and the inn appears older than your grandfather's grandfather."
Something in the Woods," A logging camp has been abandoned by its work crew, who refuse to go back to collect their equipment, or even personal belongings left behind. None of the loggers can tell you why, beyond an overwhelming feeling of terror."
Strange Beggars," An entire tribe of goblins has set up camp immediately outside town. They're not attacking, they need your help."
Lost Dog, A small child asks your assistance in locating her missing pet. His name is Spot. His description sounds suspiciously like a gnoll.
Missing Persons," Twice in as many weeks, shepherds tending the flocks have gone missing in the night. None of the sheep are gone, and there are no signs of violence. The only footprints, those of the missing herders and the sheep themselves."
Firestarter," Someone in town has taken up arson as a hobby. So far, it's only been empty buildings, and nobody's been hurt. The mayor feels it's only a matter of time before that changes, and his guards are making no headway in their investigation."
The 11th Plague: Wyrmlings," A pair of amorous chromatic dragons have moved into the area, and they've been breeding absolutely everywhere. The PC's castle/town/blueberry farm is being overrun with a swarm of dragon wyrmlings, which must be stamped out quickly lest anyone grow up. A local Cleric of Bahamut proclaims the end of days if the infestation is not stopped, and approaches the party and tasks them with ending the plague. ""Thou hath been chosen by Bahamut to commit wyrmling genocide""."
"""I AM ANNOYED WITH YOU! TAKE SPEAR AND PROVE LOYALTY TO ME! I WILL NOT MISS AGAIN!"""," One day, a masterwork spear made entirely of iron is seemingly thrown from the sky, causing a small earthquake as it strikes the ground at the feet of the party half-orc."
The Pretender Ressurected," The Queen is a tyrannical douche, having assassinated her way to the throne and murdered the rightful heir to the throne, her much more benevolent brother. A good-hearted necromancer has ressurected her brother, turning him into an intelligent undead creature not unlike a death knight, who desires to retake his rightful kingdom and end the rule of the tyrant Queen. Despite his zombie-like appearance, his benevolent attitude has earned him the favor of the (less conservative) peasantry."
Leaving Shore," One of the merchant ships in the dock is long overdue on it's berth fees. Nobody has seen the skipper in weeks but he declared a lot of valuables when he arrived at the city. Now that you mention it, nobody has gone onto his ship to see if he's there..."
Lake Placid-iosaurus," In the town besides the lake, local cattle have been mysteriously disappearing. The stories of a monster in the deeps were only campfire tales to frighten children... or were they?"
Do not return to warehouse once lit," Last week a successful business shut it's doors, leaving hundreds of locals out of work. The owner hasn't been seen since, but those who live nearby have reported a higher than usual number of explosions coming from the ""abandoned"" warehouse."
Missing Ships," The party is hired to figure out why ships are going missing at sea. Little do they know, the pirates have a deal with the keeper of the tavern they just entered; the innkeeper drugs strangers' drinks and the pirates collect them at night. The party wakes up shanghaied on the very ship responsible for the disappearances."
It Belongs in a Museum," The party is tracked by an archaeologist, who claims one of the PC's family heirloom is actually a priceless artifact from a long lost culture, and that the PC's parent/grandparent/etc must've been one of the thieves who robbed a famous excavation site decades ago."
"Mama's Baby, Papa's Maybe"," For generations, a dragon has been harassing a province. Twenty years ago, oracles prophesied a child would be born from the convergence of two noble houses who would then grow up to vanquish the evil. The party encounters the child of prophecy, now an adult warrior, in a tavern, drunk and despairing. He only now discovered his mother was having an affair when he was conceived. If his father isn't the one from the chosen bloodline, he's sure he will die trying to fulfill the prophecy, yet everyone is counting on him."
"Quest of Self-Discovery, My Ass"," A hero has vanquished a great demon that plagued a kingdom. When no reward was offered, the hero began plotting the demon's resurrection out of spite."
Dragon Blood," One of your companions has been slain by a boar. You know of a druid powerful druid who might know how to reincarnate the unlucky bard. However, this comes at a price. Sacrificing the dragon wyrmling you just befriended."
Giant's Lottery," Each year, the village of Bleakhill holds a lottery to select a volunteer. This year, you're the lucky one! With a select few of your choosing, you must go up the hill and try to defeat the Hill Giant that has been living there for over a century."
Drowned God," In a freak boating accident, you drowned. The local sea god, Uarus, offers to undo the drowning. Of course, there is a catch. You must bring his love letter to Kiaris, the goddess of a nearby river."
The Savior," After defeating the gelatinous cube, you pry open the heavy doors to the temple. In the dim light of your torch, you see the hallway is lined with statues. They seem strangely familiar, and upon closer inspection you see the statues resemble you in an uncanny way. Slowly, coffins open and zombies with a pale blue skin come forth, bowing down and calling you savior. You notice your skin begins to turn blue as well."
Adventurers Wanted," The party arrives at a distant temple converted to a new adventurers guild, but upon touching the door a powerful spell knocks them all unconscious. The party wakes up in dungeon cells, now realising that the advertised guild was really a trap."
Three Powers," A kingdom is in an unending war with the powerful neighbouring hobgoblins. A necromancer and his cult has been murdering and reanimating hundreds of human villages and towns, making an army of undead. His reason? To bring the fight to the hobgoblins."
Safe Harbor," Local waters have become too polluted with runoff and sewage for fishing. The local fishing crews have attempted moving their operation, but something lurks in the waters beyond the bay. Any that survive return with tall tales of tentacled horrors of the deep."
The Tricky Trade," The trade winds near a port city have become especially fickle as of late, and the local fishermen and navy have lost a good deal of ships. What few survivors there are return with news of a great whistling noise and a mirage-like island appearing just before the winds swept their boat to crash upon a reef or rocky shoal."
The Lone Courier, Your players while out on the road find an overturned a cart. The horse in the field nearby and the dead body on the ground imply that he was attacked by bandits who pillaged the aforementioned cart. Upon checking the cart they discover an important letter in need of delivery to a towns nearby mayor.
The Champion's Call," The heroes are drinking in the tavern when a servant slips them a letter requesting their presence at . When they arrive he believes that someone is planning a devious plot at the upcoming banquet he's going to be throwing, and he wants the party there to disrupt whatever plot his rival factions may be planning"
Falling Stars," A vast swathe of stars has disappeared from the sky. Soon after, monsters begin terrorizing the kingdom. Monsters that correspond to the constellations that disappeared. What caused them to fall? How can they be returned?"
Planebreaker," Over the past several months, many planar disturbances have been logged. Analysis suggests planar shockwaves emanating from the Elemental Plane of Water. One night, a Sahuagin army attacks the site of a large magical focusing crystal. The leader raises his trident towards the crystal, and a beam of light shoots into the sky. The sky seems to begin filling with water..."
Thief, A haunted house has appeared near a small village. The ghost inside is wailing about a thief who stole a powerful magical staff from her basement tomb.
Invasion of Spiders," The party meets a settlement of Dwarves, but strangely, they are living on the surface rather than underground. An army of Drow drove them from their home."
The Lost Tomb," While traversing a desert, the sand underneath the party begins to swirl. They get sucked into an underground tomb carved from sandstone."
The Contract," The party has been contracted by a local lord to take care of a rogue warrior who has been raiding his army encampments. The twist: When the party tracks him down, they discover their foe is, in fact, a Paladin of Freedom."
Frozen Wastelands," A snowstorm has been raging for months, seemingly centered on a certain mountain."
Shades of the Past," A misfired planar experiment sends the PCs through the Elemental Plane of Time, where they visit significant moments from their own backstories. Alternately: A powerful wizard uses divination and illusion magic to recreate key moments of the PC's backstories and attempts to use them to break them mentally."
Can't Stop the Roc, A Roc steals the caravan you are travelling with.
Summons (1d10)," 
Summons by a King
Summons by a Queen
Summons by a Jester?
Summons from a prominent adventurers guild.
Summons from a rich corporation asking for mercenary support
Summons from an old man.
Summons from a high priest
Summons from a legitimate heir to a throne
Summons from an old and experienced adventurer
Summons from a suspicious hag or witch.
"
God-King, An aspect of a god takes the throne of a small kingdom near the one you are currently in.
Sweet Thief!, A thief is stealing all sweet pastries from bakeries around the city.
How did you know they were knights? Because they wore armor.," Two knights quarrel in the street over a mundane matter, Looks like it could get ugly."
Sickness in the court, A king or other ruling figure grows mortally ill.
Werewolf Chronicles (1d12)," 
The circus is coming to town!
The circus performers are all werewolves.
The town guard is sent to investigate odd reports at the circus
The town guard are werewolves.
An adventuring party investigates the town guard
An adventuring party becomes werewolves
Talk of Several individual werewolf groups have formed a cult.
A cult of werewolves gain power over a local government system
An influential cult of werewolves start turning citizens at random, to incite panic.
On a full moon a disproportionate amount of people become werewolves.
The King offers rewards for a cure to the werewolf curse.
All hits of the werewolf curse are despised, people are being hung in the streets.
"
Hunters Request (1d10)," 
A hunter is looking for assistance hunt many small prey
A hunter is looking for assistance with a rare creature
A hunter is looking for assistance with a dangerous creature
A hunter is looking for assistance hunting a unique creature
A hunter is looking for assistance obtaining a rare creatures egg/offspring.
A dragon-slayer would like information on local dragons.
A jolly man invites you fishing.
A talking snake wishes for you to bring him several moon rats to eat.
A creature that is undocumented has been spotted to the west.
An extremely rare creature was spotted just outside town.
"
Shifts in Power (1d8)," 
A child is born to a powerful family.
A child is born to a powerful family with a notable irregularity.
A new god is born.
An old god dies.
A gods power hierarchy shifts.
A known NPC is assassinated, the party receives word of this.
An impoverished NPC has been appointed as a baron, and wishes to throw a party for the party.
Questionable individuals of the town guard are unhappy with its management and want a reform.
"
Magical Mischief (1d8)," 
A wizard has been casting powerful magic as training. Causing havoc on local wildlife.
Druids have been growing trees near a large city, damaging its walls.
A prince is attempting to learn magic. Is incredibly inept.
The King has been decreeing odd orders after a voodoo obsessed adviser is appointed.
A lich has been raising zombies to do menial labor, locals are uneasy.
Local acolytes want to perform rituals on the locals, the process is very painful.
A wizard wants help convincing the townsfolk that his spell is actually a natural phenomena.
The party is called to investigate a mystery.
"
Authoritarian Revolution (1d6)," 
A brothel is hosting a competition for the best lover.
Sexual relations are outlawed in the city, the people are upset.
Alcohol is prohibited in the city. The people are upset.
Swearing in public is illegal. The people are upset.
Many are murmuring of revolution, any talking about it are quickly quelled.
A revolutionary group is meeting in secret, the party is invited.
"
Magnum Opus," An artist would like help creating their masterpiece, requiring a party of adventures to pose with a killed monster."
A killing Joke, An assassin masquerading as a jester has been killing a nobles every 5 days.
Plaguestoppers," A disease spreads across the land, the cure is known but difficult to obtain."
A Blue moon opening, A difficult to join guild is offering an opening.
42," A creature from another plane appears, insults the party, then leaves."
Honor in blood, A dying warrior desires death by combat.
Gallery of Rouges," Many of the towns undesirables have been banding together, the local authorities want this stopped."
Rubber Economy," Demand for rubber has gone through the roof, due to a fashion trend."
Free for all," A gem mine collapses suspiciously, and its contents have been declared free for all."
Gorgonzola Cheese," A new type of cheese has been developed, Gourmets would like to know if it is poisonous."
...And the worlds finest wine, Rich Nobles want rare liquor from around the kingdom for an upcoming party.
Gon' Fishin'," The price of fish is up, now is the time to buy a rod."
Don't tell anyone (1d4)," 
A rich man is offering a reward on a “personal” item
A rich woman is offering a reward on a “personal” letter.
A brothel is offering anyone that can “surprise” on of their workers a reward.
A competition for ""best Lover"" is being held.
"
Itemfinder," A specific treasure is desired, a local wizard is willing to help discern its location."
Not the Bees!, A bee keeper is looking for a few new queens.
God of colors," Dyes are in demand, due to a new religious craze."
A sharp order, A dragon needs somebody to file down its claws.
Gift of the gab, Crafting guilds are not cooperating and intermediates can make a lot of money.
A hole is a hole," You fall into a pitfall trap, something interesting is at the bottom of it."
To train them is my cause, The barracks need strong fighters to help train troops.
I don't remember them, You receive a letter claiming a member of the party is owed inheritance.
The Ogre and the Goblins, Recently a nearby town has lost all contact with the outside world. When the PCs go to investigate they discover that an ogre is holding the town hostage and letting no one leave under any circumstance unless unreasonable demand is met. If the PCs set out into the surrounding woods they can find the ogre's cave. Twist: the ogre doesn't want to do this and has been tricked into terrorizing the town by some goblins who want the town for nefarious purpose. The ogre will help fight the goblins if the PCs try to win it's freedom. 2nd Twist: the ogre is actually highly intelligent and is controlling the goblins. He betrays the PCs at a critical moment during the fight.
The RC Knight," Upon crossing a bridge, the party encounters a knight dressed in black, challenging them to battle, saying ""None shall pass."" After the battle begins, every round the party has a chance to notice that the knight is in fact an automaton being controlled by some children hiding in the bushes nearby. Upon being noticed the children have the knight pull the old ""Pay no attention to the man behind the curtain"" bit. ""Your opponent is over here!"", etc."
The missing spy," A party member is bumped into on the street by someone unremarkable who simply excuses themselves and keeps walking. They later discover a small letter in one of their pockets. The letter details how a spy that was supposed to be reporting every so often has gone silent, and that they will be rewarded handsomely for their swift and discreet investigation."
The Stubbed Toe," One of the members of the party stubs his/her toe. When he or she looks down, they see that they stubbed their toe on another toe! Protruding from the ground is the hard gray foot of a corpse, buried just below the surface."
Ghost Busters," There's something weird in the neighborhood, and it don't look good. Ghosts have recently been frightening the residents of the neighborhood where the party has been recuperating after their last grand adventure."
My Name Is Jonas," While at sea, the PCs ship is attacked by a leviathan. The great beast swallows them whole. There is a large bubble of air in the beast's belly, but it smells foul, and it won't last long."
"Dude, where's my wagon?"," While partying with the PCs at a festival, a wizard and traveling salesman (of potions, wands, scrolls, and more!) can't figure out what happened to his wagonload of goodies. Will the party help him find it?"
The Old King is Dead," The king has died without an heir. Several distant relatives are claiming the crown. The party is cornered by supporters of one of the claimants, will they support their claim? Immediately following this encounter, the party is cornered by supporters of a rival claimant, what did they promise the first one? Blood, intrigue, and/or chaos ensue."
The Tempest," The party is shipwrecked on a strange island during a storm. Little do they know that on the island is living one of their former enemies, a sorcerer of terrible power, hell-bent on vengeance."
To Know a Bit More," A sister of the Storm King's temple meets the party in the village. She asks the party to follow a lead on the present whereabouts of her estranged mother in a town far to the South. If they return with news, she is offering to slip the party into the temple complex's second, secret library to browse the forbidden lore that is held in the texts kept there."
The Man in The Hair Piece, It turns out it was actually Bruce Willis the whole time.
the smiling figure," In the midst of night the party is arrested and placed in one of 4 cages, each containing 16 people. the cages are surrounding a small clay figure like this one (http://i.imgur.com/3TB3SqI.jpg) they manage to escape yet they are stalked by a shadow. twist time: shadow is the spirit of one of the pc's that is trying to warn the party that whatever came out of the clay figure is controlling his body"
The Cottage," While traveling along the road, the party is caught in a sudden rainstorm. They take shelter in a small abandoned cottage nearby. While they wait out the storm, they discover the cottage is not as abandoned as they thought..."
Shaggy Dog, A wizard with a feud with the party turns the party into dogs. They need to find a way to change back
March of the Giants, A host of giants marches towards the city.
Royal Matchmaker," The King enlists adventurer's aid on finding a princess for the prince, who is having trouble approaching the ladies of the court. The King is an old romantic who believes in true love and will not settle for a loveless arranged marriage."
Freestyle, More and more youth in the city are being drawn to the bard profession. It has become a popular to engage in duels where the only allowed action is viscious mockery until one side collapses.
Monsters Wanted," A local dungeon has become so nice that the monsters are not leaving it to terrorize the villagers, upsetting the local adventurer's guild who is now out of work."
Kittens!," A wizard-in-training's psudeodragon familiar has recently given birth to a new litter. He can't keep the baby psuedodragons and hires the party to find a good home for them. He hasn't quite figured out what the father was, but the baby psuedodragons are exhibiting some strange characteristics"
Spitting Fire, Everything in 6ft radius around a Bard catches fire whenever he starts singing.
Honor Among Thieves, The party encounters a gang of Djinn trying to rob a master thief of his recent score.
The Devil's Advocate, A Warlock wants to take his patron to court for not fulfilling the terms of their contract. He hires the party as lawyers to defend his case.
Evil has a new name, A local necromancer wants the party to help change his image.
Waterdeep Nine Nine, The captain of the guard is low on manpower and hires the PCs as temps. They end up working traffic and making routine house calls.
Lost!, The party finds a lost dog flyer in the middle of the wilderness. A ranger has lost his wolf companion and is neglecting his watch looking for him. He offers a hefty reward on the poster.
When Harry met Saddle, A gypsy has put a curse on the party and they keep falling in love with inanimate objects.
Big Green Thumbs, The Dwarf King wants the party (surface dwellers) to build him a garden for his palace
Father and Son, A simulacrum hires the party to help him win his creator's love.
Blood on Their Hands, There is a new fad among the nobility to keep Lycanthropes as pets and slaves. The Emperor wants the party to put a stop to it.
Queen's Gambit, A prince recruits the party to win back his birthright when the widowed queen marries a knight in her service
No Country for Old Elves, An ancient elf recruits the party to help him reconnect with all his old human friends. Turns out they have all been dead for centuries and many are the subjects of the epics sung by bards.
The Connection," A master thief has quit the thieves guild. The city guard wants him to give away the guilds secrets, and are willing to offer amnesty in exchange. Meanwhile, competing thieves guilds see him as a valuable asset and are also trying to recruit him and get an edge on the other thieves guilds."
The Sealed Sword, Bandits have taken over a local temple and are holding the priests hostage! The leader is trying to attune the sacred weapon kept there to himself.
Shadow on the High Seas, The party is hired to guard a merchant ship. A mysterious girl is found stowed away. Cultist Pirates attack soon after attempting to capture the girl. She was a former prisoner and they are trying to get her back.
The Devil is a good for nothing bum," It has been a thousand years and according to a prophecy a demon king is supposed to return to the world. But he has grown tired and lazy and hires the party to terrorize the populace in his stead, but requires all the pomp and circumstance expected of the prophecy."
Window of Opportunity," The human kingdoms and the orc clans in a joint archaelogical dig have discovered a stone portal to other worlds. The party is hired to explore the worlds through the portal while the orcs and humans play politics in order to control the portal, which they both consider an important military asset."
Uncultured, The guard arrest a wealthy half-orc for a gory display of butchered animal and human parts on his front lawn. He argues he was just expressing his cultural heritage but no one knows where the human parts came from.
Road to Platinum Plateau, Several dragons got together and decided to award badges to any party of adventurers who can beat them in combat. Having all 8 badges gives the party a chance to meet Bahamut in battle.
Metallic Monster Mischief," A band of pixies taking turns casting domination magic have taken control of a copper dragon. No one knows what they're going to use it for, but it must be big."
Line in the Sand, Two Mummy Lords have awoken at the same time and both are laying claim to the kingdom.
"Mirror, Mirror", One day the party wakes up and finds they have no reflections.
Shadow Dancer, A fey thief has stolen the PC's shadows and is running away with them. The shadows are only too happy to be free and aid the fey in their escape.
Hired Muscle," The party is made aware of a Kolyarut is hunting them, although they have no idea what contract they broke"
What's in a name?, Mid level PC's arrive in a village/city that's part of a kingdom they've spent significant time in only to find that instead of a warm welcome they're wanted for a crime they didn't commit. Imposters? Simulacra?!
I stepped on what?!, While travelling through a forest the players are accosted by druids (or elves?) who accuse them of trampling through a sacred grove and destroying it. As restitution they must plant the seed for a new holy tree in a difficult to reach location.
Aren't we supposed to be heroes?," After defeating a group of  have a very angry dragon (too powerful for the PC's to defeat) swoop in on the PC's and demand that they replace the  and send them on missions to raid caravans/villages/ships etc. Have a riot forcing them into uncomfortable moral, political, and legal situations in service of their dragon overlord."
Have at thee!, During a social encounter (ball/banquet/etc) a minor noble approaches one of the PC's and begins loudly demanding recompense for some perceived slight. He challenges the player to a competition (combat/poetry/song/dance).
Stalker," The PCs get in a fight with a group of bandits who prove to be a little more than the PCs can handle. During the encounter a PC of the DM’s choice is about to be hit by a bandits attack when out of nowhere a masked figure comes out of nowhere to protect him/her. This figure helps the PCs defeat the bandits and then disappears as suddenly as she/he appears. Over the next few weeks the party must occasionally make a DC 15 perception check to notice the figure watching the PC in question from bushes, through tavern windows, etc. This player then starts receiving love letters signed by “Your Secret Admirer.”"
”Your Lost Pet”," The PCs wake up in the tavern they were sleeping in to find a very disgruntled displacer beast in their room with a note around its neck that reads “I found your lost pet on my doorstep. It’s been awhile since I’ve studied undercommon but I think he belongs to you. - Grimley the Hill Wizard.” On the displacer beast’s collar is written in undercommon: “This displacer beast is the pet of the drow priestess Melina. His name is fluffy and his favorite food is disobedient dwarven slaves. If found please return to the temple at 132, Arachnid Street in the drow metropolis of Rock Gloom.”"
The Prowler, While in a city the PCs notice a number of wanted posters saying “Warning: Masked prowler slaying loyal citizens and raising them as undead.” The posters also have a sketch depicting a figure in a hood and a mask. Various town criers throughout the city can be seen shouting news about him while waving one of these posters. Every 1d10 days the criers will report 1d4 more victims of the the Prowler
Family Reunion, The party runs into a family member of one of the PCs who tells them that a family reunion is being planned.
Slash a Mole, The PCs come across a farmer who asks them to get rid of a rabbit infestation that’s running the lettuce crop in exchange for some gold and free lodging. He notes that he has had other adventurers do the same thing but the rabbits keep coming back. If the players help the farmer they eventually find out that the rabbits are undead because the farmer’s daughter is learning necromancy.
Stampede," A stampede of carnivorous dinosaurs literally appears out of thin air in a rural area that the PCs are going through and starts devouring wild animals, livestock, and their farmers."
Witch Trial," The players come to a small town on a lake. When they enter a local tavern they find a group of townspeople discussing the recent spike in illness, the recent poisoning of a well, along with strange lights on the lake, and other occurrences that make them think there's a witch in the town. The general topic of conversation is whether or not to try the reclusive herbalist who lives on the other side of the lake as a witch because of it."
Cormo’s Elixir, While in a town or city the PCs come pass by a halfling named Cormo selling a miracle elixir that he claims can cure any illness. Turns out that the elixir is simply a weak healing potion cut with brandy. But Cormo claims that he isn’t the one to blame.
Larcenous Lycanthrope Lunacy," The city the PCs are currently in has been dealing with a gang of lycanthropes who have been pulling off surprisingly complex heists including bank robbery, stealing exotic spices off of ships, and even stealing the jewelry out of a noblewoman’s bedroom while she was sleeping."
Who wants to be a Lycanthrope?, One morning in a town or village a poster is nailed to the door of the town hall that reads “ever want to be a lycanthrope? Ever want to release the beast inside? Well now you can! Simply leave your bedroom window open and leave 150 gold on your nightstand tonight.”
Hey Barkeep!, The barkeep at a local tavern has simply stopped in his tracks behind the bar and is staring off into the distance muttering something about a slaad in the basement.
Wraith Hunters, The party gets approached by a group of wraith hunters to destroy a wraith and his specter servants.
Grave Robbers," The graveyards are being continually raided by a group of grave robbers. In addition, some of the stolen bodies have been seen wandering the countryside as zombies. The players, upon investigating, find that there are actually two groups of grave robbers: One group of necromancers and a group of paladins, clerics, and other undead hunters trying to keep the bodies out of the hands of the first group."
Wyvern Riders, A reclusive tribe of wyvern riding warriors that live in the mountains has been raiding surrounding villages for food.
Slayfest," The elves have been having some orc problems as this month is the bi-annual orcish festival of Slayfest. Slayfest is where all the young orcish warriors who have proved themselves over the last two years go out into the elven lands and brazenly challenge elven warriors to one on one combat with the hope of becoming eyes of Gruumsh. In addition, it is traditional to pillage and murder elven villages in order to draw the warriors out. The elven king, not wanting to give the orcs the satisfaction of fighting his elven warriors, has decided to hire out some adventurers both elven and non elven to deal with the orcs."
Crash Landing," A burning airship is seen wobbling unsteadily through the air on a collision course with the ground. Shortly after it disappears over a nearby hill, a crashing noise is heard and a cloud of smoke can be seen off in the distance."
The Sudden Spring," A small village in a desert celebrates as a spring has miraculously welled up in the middle of the town square, however now local barons and raiders have begun to take a much bigger interest in this suddenly incredibly valuable town. THE OPTIONAL TWIST: The spring is a portal to the Elemental Plane of Water not far underground, and wild water elementals and sea creatures will begin to cause problems."
Mysterious Egg," The party has just stumbled on a group of bandits. After beating them, they realize they are poachers, and have an a mysterious egg in their posession. If the party takes the egg, they soon find themselves followed by monsters and poachers alike. What is this thing?"
The Fiendish Well," An well was just dug in the middle of a small town after the old one collapsed. The water smells of brimstone, so the people have refused to drink it... this has not stopped farm animals from drinking it, and transforming into demonic beasts. To save the town, the well has to be purified and the demonic creatures defeated."
Cultist Kidnappers," A local jeweler and a local blacksmith have been kidnapped (From their homes, whilst on the road to a trade center etc.) and someone wants the PCs to find them. The sinister story behind it all is that a cult of some form needs their expertise to create some form of magic item/summoning circle/planar gate/mystical_evil_object of some description. The PCs should stop them. This would make a great introduction to a large story arc for low level PCs."
The Uninvited Guests," While in a city, the party is confronted by an old nobleman, whose research indicates that fey conciousnesses are about to invade an upcoming party for nobles. The man himself is not invited due to being a little... eccentric, but he can get the party invited, armed with a magical amulet to prevent the wearers conciousness from being invaded. But there's only one amulet to go around."
Missing Mistress," Jaelom Harns, promiscuous daughter of a local wealthy merchant, is missing. All twelve of her public suitors have fled town at the same time."
Dead Carnies," A travelling circus recently left town yesterday after spending two weeks entertaining the townsfolk. This morning, it was discovered in a smoldering ruin barely ten miles outside of town, all the entertainers dead and seemingly burned alive."
By Gragnar's Hammer," Famous Dwarven smith, Gragnar Battlestein, recently did a show-and-tell at his smithy of some of techniques. Mysteriously, only two days later, his hammer went missing. It was probably one of the two hundred attendees, so at least there's a starting point for the investigation!"
Green Dragon Request," A green dragon slowly rising to power hopes to recruit its own adventuring party. The dragon offers a sizable amount of treasure for an oh so small favor. The dragon always has more things that need doing and the rewards begin piling up, but some of the requests start putting the party into moral quandaries. (Note: this would probably work best for trying to mess with a ""good"" party)"
The Hand of [Enter PC Name Here]," The players learn that undead have been terrorizing a nearby town lately and the culprit is likely residing in the abandoned tomb close by. The players encounter some undead (zombie dogs, mummies, etc.) while traversing the tomb but all they find out is that a lich likely resided there long ago. During the trek, however, one of the players gets bit by a wight and becomes plagued with an affliction. Have a local cleric stop the affliction from spreading, but now the PC's hand is changed forever. Give it some utility features (a minor and major advantage/disadvantage), and continue the story. Unbeknownst to the PCs, the cleric is the culprit and has been secretly researching and practicing necromancy in the tomb. At some point later in the story, have the cleric be revealed as a minor/major BBEG who became obsessed with his research and is after the PCs hand. If you want to increase the stakes, have the removal of the hand cause instant death/drop to zero HP and roll death save, and/or have the cleric confront the PCs because he can take control of the PC."
Happy Death-day," The party falls through a sinkhole into an underground cavern. There they find a gnome golem crafter and his golem have been declared as high priest and god, respectively, by a small tribe of Kuo-toa. The golem crafter has been trying to keep up the illusion while looking for a way out of the cavern system, but he needs help... A retired vampire-slayer and nobleman is holding a birthday party for his 10 year old son. Along with the bevy of guests, a small contingent of vampires have slipped into the party get revenge on the elderly paladin. Optional Twist: The paladin is able to lock himself inside a safe room with a couple of guests, but is separated from his son in the commotion. One of the vampires uses Magic Jar to inhabit the body of the son and tags along with the party until they can open the safe room."
The Stolen Statue," In the street of a crossroads trading post, a wealthy merchant is heatedly accusing the blacksmith of stealing his silver dragon statue, a priceless family heirloom. The blacksmith protests his innocence, but the statue is definitely gone."
A Coup or Two," A warlord has been succeeded, not by his son, but by the captain of his guard -- a foreigner who rose to fame as a brilliant tactician and commander, the warlord's right-hand-man and the source of much of his success. Now the warlord's son is fleeing into the hills, and beseeches mercenaries for aid in reclaiming his rightful place. But not all people think the new lord is so bad, and not all people see the prince as favourably as he would like to think..."
Ward," The fortress town of Ward sits on a rocky hill on a wet, windswept coast. There is not much to do in Ward, and most of the populace is in fact in the military, dedicated to protecting the city from the frequent orc raids that come down from the mountains. Recently, contact has been lost with one of the watch posts in the hills meant to warn the city of impending attacks."
The Wedding of Starky McFrey, The NPC's are invited to the wedding of Starky McFrey. Out of nowhere the wedding guests are attacked and Starky and his wive are the first of the casualty's
The wedding of Theon Bara, The NPC's are invited to the wedding of Theon Bara. Out of nowhere Theon Bara drops dead from poisoning.
"You Don't Have to Go Home, But You Can't Stay Here"," There has been a mass exodus from the city, but it's unclear why. Everyone leaving seems to have perfectly legitimate and unrelated reasons, but everyone is going at once."
The Harbinger Trump, Word has gotten around that the Harbinger Trump has sounded and forces are gathering in the east to fight for glory!
The New Library, Crowds are gathered around the gleaming new library. But there's something odd and animated about the new books and it'd better be under control before the ribbon cutting ceremony.

Name,Type,Description

I'm thirsty! Where are we spilling our gold tonight?,"The sign on the door has a man in plate armor kneeling before a pig. ""She's in here,"" you think to yourself. ""Here goes nothing."" As the old oak door swings open the scent of stale ale and sweat fill your head. The room before you is packed with dwarves each holding a mug in an uplifted arm, swaying to the music. The dwarves all sing as one: ""What do you do with a drunken fighter? What do you do with a drunken fighter?"""," The taverns do not have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could easily drop them into his or her world, filling in details as needed. I'll post a few examples."
The Wollywog Inn,Inn with Tavern," At one time, the Wollywog Inn also had a brewery, however, erosion caused the basement wall facing the sea to collapse. Deciding to make lemonade from lemons, the owner converted the basement into a small boat dock for patrons arriving from sea."
The Blackbird House,Comfortable Urban Pub," This is a pub and inn run by a protective, burnt-out wizard. A former drug addict, the owner now runs his business as an under-the-radar haven for all manner of casters in a city that doesn't look favorably on magic."
The Bard and the Priest,Countryside inn, This is a cozy little spot where the pious bards drink and drunken priests sing. The proprietor often hops on the stage to perform unholy renditions of well-known sacred hymns.
The Hound's Prince,Roadside watering hole," This place is a dive filled with humanity's leavings and those cruel enough to dice with them and to take their money. There are a few rooms for rent, but you would have better luck avoiding theft camping alongside the road."
The Binding Demon,Seedy urban tavern," In nice taverns, you can avoid trouble. In this hole-in-the-wall, trouble gloms onto you. There may be something in the wine or it may be something in the food (which is abysmal), but no one visits this rowdy spot without waking the next day with a splitting headache."
The Bumbling Warrior,Roadside inn," This tidy little spot on a hill has a view of a famous battlefield. Legend says that on this spot, a king of old camped with his army while pursuing an enemy horde, only to be slaughtered in the night by his enemy whose army had slipped off the road and doubled back around behind him in the woods."
The Butcher and the Guard,Village pub," On the sign above the door of this neat little house is a kneeling man-at-arms with a fat, aproned man raising a cleaver poised to strike off the man's head. The meat served in this place is of excellent quality, locally raised. However, I would not recommend the blood sausage, I've heard stories..."
The Stallion and the Void,Tidy urban tavern," Located near the university, this place is a favorite spot among scholars and philosophers. Lively discussions of alchemy, astronomy, history, and metaphysics frequently occur at the long tables covered in mugs of ale."
The Good Whale,Dockside tavern," Down by the water in the shadow of the Storm King's temple is a tavern that caters to merchants, ship's captains, and priests who demand that they drink in a respectable place. The floors and tables are respectably clean, the food is respectably priced, and the barmaids are all respectably good-looking."
The Snake and Piglet,Swampland cantina," The signature plate at this place is fried snake and wild pig ribs, served with a side of greens tossed with a spicy lemon dressing. The drink specials range from overly, sweet fruity cocktails to skunky, watery beers. The clientele tend to be suspicious of outsiders, but they are fiercely loyal once you've won them over. If you must participate in the alligator wrestling matches, let the alligator win once in a while—for the good of the sport."
The Filthy Devil,Desert cantina," The beer is cheap, but the water is expensive at this scummy little oasis. There are no rooms for rent, but the surrounding salt flat is often cluttered with tents of caravans and other travelers stopping as they cross the wasteland. The proprietor is a devious little fellow who must have a fortune hidden around here somewhere with what he charges..."
The Fermented Priest,Countryside taproom," Why are all these places full of drunken priests? Are they looking for answers to the same cosmological or metaphysical riddle? Among the patrons here are the local sheepherders who outnumber the priests four-to-one, but the pilgrims passing this way between the city and the High Temple on Mount Torrynts are much more interesting to chat with over an ale."
The Goblin's Tooth,Mining town pub," A mangled, rusty pick axe has been affixed above the door of this rickety wooden structure. Inside, large barrels serve as tables and small barrels serve as stools for the local miners who spend their evenings here complaining of the guildbosses, the poor pay, and the spooky sights down in the mines. I heard one tale of a tunnel where shimmering lights danced over the walls in the shapes of seductive maidens and another tunnel where a presence follows close behind you whispering, ""Give us a kiss, give us a kiss..."""
The Inn at the End of the Multiverse,"Inn, Tavern, can be anything it needs to be really"," This inn is both everywhere and nowhere at once as it resides in a pocket plane of existence that is only accessible by those who've been ""stamped"" by a previous visitor to the Inn. Once marked, a player can visit this inn by finding wherever the nearest entrance happens to be. Trick is its always changing. Sometimes it's a regular door, sometimes it's a hole in the ground, sometimes it's a makeshift arch made by random branches in the woods. The entrance will always be within a half-days travel of the player, and they can find it through a general sense of its location (think along the lines of how birds know north and south when migrating). As they get closer the player(s) will be able to hear/smell things indicative of an Inn even if it makes no sense for it to be there. Once inside the Inn it's a lot like an inn of a major city. Patrons of all kinds can be found within. I personally have even used it as a fun way of having players interact with former characters of theirs or major legendary figures in D&D or even other tabletop series. The breadth of available patrons, or other things like possible vendors and the like, is up to you. I've used this inn as a means of weaving together one shot sessions as well via a sort of ""quest"" board located in the Inn that services anywhere in the multiverse."
The Welcome Traveller,Mobile Pub," This pub, rather unusually, is in the form of a caravan, which travels the countryside, stopping in any towns it comes across for a few days, then moving on again. The proprietor is a young, bright eyed Half-Elf called Darnell, who believes that the best way to get customers is to come to them, rather than waiting for them to come to him."
Nalds McDo's.,Extremely sketchy joint on the wealthy side on town.," Inside McDo's bar you find no bar but an empty room with wooden floors and bruise-green painted walls. There are no chairs, stools or tables. The sign out front prohibits you from taking chairs or tables in with you. The walls are empty, save for the menu, which lists a fine collection of imported spirits. The prices scrape against the sky. There are only two doors in Nalds McDo's: the entrance, and the anti-chamber that leads to the kitchen. The antichamber door is closed at all times except when the waitress zips through with your order. On the chance to peek, you'll find that the other door of the antichamber is closed as well. You'll also see holes in the walls with speartips pointing through. Despite the ridiculous prices, the spirits are the best you'll ever taste and will be worth every gold piece. But if you want to keep coming here, you'll obey these rules: 1) Do not ask about prices. 2) Do not ask about the origin of the merchandise. 3) Do not ask the waitress's name. 4) Do not tip the waitress. 5) Never, ever ask who Nalds McDo is or if this is actually his bar. Other than that, find a place to sit and enjoy your brew."
Darkmantle's Den,Roadside Pub / Inn," A little run down but always full of lively customers, the Darkmantle's Den is home to Rotgut. An unfortunately named dwarf and the owner of the place, so named because his family used to run a distillery in Dwarf country. Called cozy by its patrons it features 12 tables and ample room by the fireplace for all weary travelers looking for respite on the road. It sits roughly half a days walk between two small towns and sees much business in those going between the two."
House Hunter Hall,Pub," Named because, according to the owner, it was built in the shell of a House Hunter he and his friends defeated long ago. The hall is made of stone and lit magically negating the need for torches and such, the tables are made out of what appear to be bones and the chairs are fashioned from stones. It is located in the heart of a grand city and trade hub where stories tell of a failed mimic invasion. Many patrons visit it only because it is the only pub within easy walking distance of the residential quarter and describe it as eerie. Once in a great while a drunken guest is said to vanish."
Griphon's Garrison,Tavern for local guards and stationed military," Located directly next to the garrison house for the town guard and two blocks away from the barracks for the locally stationed military it is a favourite of both groups. The owner offers safe storage for rare goods in the basement as there is never a safer place in the town and all the regulars praise the quality of the food and alcohol as being better even than in the large cities. The place is a comfortable one for all patrons and with the second floor can easily seat 100 when the house is packed, the owner is considering renovations to fit the ever expanding clientele."
The Velvet Cave,A secretive tavern/inn," Located in a large city, this place has no signs advertising it's presence, yet it always has a crowd. In this nondescript building is the city's only gay bar/inn, and as such is usually packed with both men and women looking to meet others of a similar inclination. The ambiance is restrained though, the music is soft, and the place has a more upscale feel to it, even though it's food and drink prices are very reasonable. For those favoring privacy in their hook-ups, Inn rooms can be rented by the hour, and sometimes there is a wait to get an open room."
The Embers,Town Pub," The first owner, over a century ago, instituted the tradition that the main, large fire in the centre of the pub would be built, lit and banked the minute the bottom of the sun touched the horizon. After that, it isn't fed at all. The pub will then remain open so long as there are at least some glowing embers in the fire."
The Peeing Puppy,Combo tavern and animal shelter," A powerful adventurer retired to open a tavern, but as she worked to get her establishment ready to open, she noticed that there were lots of stray animals in the city, and she changed her initial plans. She added an animal shelter to her tavern, and now takes care of thirsty patrons and homeless animals. Initially, some patrons decided to be less than friendly to the animals, but after the adventurer killed or maimed the first few patrons who hurt any of the animals, there are very few incidents."
The Singing Swordsman,Friendly Urban Tavern," This local eatery is commonly frequented by various adventuring parties. It is run by a wise and wily dwarf that doesn't accept monetary payment for any of his goods, instead chanting ""A rumor for an ale, a story for a meal, a song for a round, a secret for a feast!"""
The philanthropist's flagon,generous urban pub," This pub is run by a rich adventurer. Every purchase made by a customer will have an equal drink or meal donated to the city's poor and hungry, and for every night a room is rented here an equal room is given to one of the city's homeless during that time. It is often filled with those whose love of justice outweighs their greed, and those who were able to find a job due to having more time to look for one since they didn't have to beg as much."
Slaghand's,Dwarven Meadhouse," When Gnurl Slaghand died without warning on the eve of her 300th year, the patrons of her bar feared that the recipe for her (in)famous dry mead had passed with her, and for good reason; She had long encouraged the rumor that only she knew where to find the honey, the spices, and the fruit that made hers the most beloved wine in the fallen kingdoms. Thankfully, the rumors proved to be baseless, and the barlads continued to serve the potent mead throughout her wake and the years that followed. Recently, however, murmurs among the sommeliers and brewers have hinted that the quality of Slaghand's mead has declined, and that someone ought to find out why."
The Titches' Wit,Alehouse and Souvenir Shop," The beer has been watered down to almost nothing, the lighting is poor, and the prices are laughable, but still they come. Perhaps it's the schtick - old witch-hunting gear, scavenged from the abandoned garrison, has been hung from the rafters and on the walls, and for an extra silver you can have 'genuine hag ash' sprinkled into your drink to protect you from the roving eye of She That Watches. On your way out, you can buy vials of dangerously alcoholic 'ELICKSER', badly carved wooden crossbows, 'silvered' tin swords, and approximations of holy symbols from nearly every deity; alive, dead and/or fictional."
Mariner's Hull,Inn and Tavern in a coastal city," Nautical themed inn catering to seamen taking a night ashore, especially the Captains and other officers of the ship. All rooms are single and small, but compared to ship bunks, they are downright expansive and offer each guest the privacy they lack aboard ship. Each room contains a hammock which can be suspended above the bed for those old salts who prefer it. The mounts for the hammock is a marvel combination of Gondish technology and spellcraft and causes the hammock to sway gently, mimicking the rolling waves of a calm ocean. Many an old salt has said it's the best sleep they've ever had on land. A nights stay includes a trip to a small bath house, one pint of ale and one meal. Rooms are 8 sp per night. (see also, Trade Way Junction)"
Trade Way Junction,Inn and Tavern in a coastal trading city," Often referred to (especially by seafarers) as ""Lubber's Junction"" this Coach & Wagon themed inn caters to Caravan Masters, coachmen and others usually found on caravan troupes. The inn prides itself a being the best place in the city to find overland transport for goods up and down the coast. Located close to Mariner's Hull, it's where Captains and Caravan Masters often meet to arrange transport for goods making the transition between land and sea, or for each to find clients needing transport for their merchandise. The top of each large table contains a map of area trade routes. Rooms are 1gp per night. (see also, Mariner's Hull)"
MacNamara's Pub,Small Public House in an large city," A hidden gem, tucked away on a side street, out of the way of lots of traffic. The most notable thing about this place is the proprietor, ""Dark"" Darcey MacNamara (""hound of the sea""). She's a strong athletic black woman who looks like a cross between a pirate warrior and voodoo priestess. She's always friendly with a wide bright white smile and long dread-locks. But don't piss her off; she's defenestrated many an unruly patron. She is a bit of a mystery, but she's always there, day or night, and the Pub always seems open. Rumor is that Darcey is a retired pirate, but she might actually be an ancient silver dragon. The crowds are small, the drinks are superb (some are her private label, unavailable anywhere else in the region), and the food is amazing without being fancy. Meat Pie - similar to sheppard's pie Steak & Bread - steak sandwich on a hearty wheat loaf. The meat varies. Fresh Catch - something from the sea or river, served with grilled vegetables. Catch & Bread - Fresh Catch, grilled to perfection, served on a light loaf Fresh Paddy - a hamburger, but the meat changes (beef, goat, veal, venison, bison, etc.) Field Rations - a vegetarian option. changes daily, never looks like a salad Jambalaya - ingredients vary, usually fresh catch & sausage. Always spicy, always delicious. All meals are 5 sp. Drinks are 1 sp except for ""private label"" items which are 3 sp."
The Fallen Apple,Roadside Inn," Where the road passes through orchards covered with trees, the Fallen Apple makes use of all the damaged fruit to brew a variety of fruity wines, cordials and liquors. Famous for it's mildly sweetened 'Apple Ale', the Inn is run by a variety of members of the local farming households, who also split the profits, and even export their more potent spirits to far away towns."
The Seahag,Tavern off the beaten path," A dilapidated wooden tavern and inn run by an old sea captain. Ole' Cap (as he calls himself) doesn't particularly like patrons, and has set up shop far off the normal crossroads. Ole' Cap just wanted to retire to land, and the only time he spent on land was in dockside bars."
The Pilgrim's Peace,Quiet Urban Pub," This place is outside of the main city, and looks like a plain, humble establishment. The tone is muted, the only sounds are the crackling fire and the low conversations. The barman wears simple rough wool. No names are asked for here, everyone is called ""friend"". Know the right phrase, and you can be shown downstairs, to the Sinner's Sanctum."
The Sinner's Sanctum,Out-of-the-way Establishment," This is the true face of the Pilgrim's Peace. Tell the barman ""I need a place to rest my head, just for tonight"" and hand him a silver, and he'll lead you down a rickety set of wooden stairs into a carved out room beneath the cellar. Here you can be put in contact with the criminal element of the city. As above, no names. You call people ""friend""."
The Jumping Church,Repurposed Urban Pub," The neighbourhood has gone downhill since the competing thieves' guilds moved in, and the biggest symbol of that decline was the converting of St Cuthbert's temple to a sleazy gambling den, whorehouse and drinking hole. The place got its name from the curious state of its foundations. The entire building is a few feet West of where it used to be. A cleric used to be buried under the East wall, and his resting place now lies outside. The story goes that St Cuthbert caused the temple to jump over his faithful servant, rather than have his remains remain in such a place."
The Feast and Famine,Rundown Urban Tavern," Here in the poor part of town you can find the Feast and Famine, run by a man called Log and his elderly nan Gristlepot. They won't tell you their real names lightly, they have a past that they've left behind. Log runs a system of discreetly trading favours with ever-richer people, and he employs passing adventurers to carry them out for him. Gristlepot runs a stew kitchen for the hungry poor in the area. A bowl for a copper, or free if you bring something for the pot."
Wainwright's Shortcut,Urban Dwarven Tavern," Flush with all the art, song, and beer from Dwarven lands, this pub aims to be a hub for the homesick dwarves of the city. As such, it is built into a hill and carved out of earth and cladded with stone to feel just like the beerhall you drank in with your daddy. The name comes from a myth about the Wainwright, the Dwarf who calls you out of the ground when you die and wheels you back to the Living in his cart. ""No need to bury you, he'll know to find you here!"""
The Sinner's Spittoon,Grimy Urban Tavern," Always dimly lit, humid and full of unsavourable types, the Sinner's Spittoon is run by a racist Half-Orc who only allows humans inside - and he's too huge and menacing for anyone to let him know his true heritage."
The Hammer and Tongs,Tavern with Inn," The sign outside has a simply branded image of a hammer between a pair of things. This spot was a favorite among locals until it closed. It was bought up by a middle aged priest who used it as his personal sanctuary to hide from his memories. Recently, he has adopted a young woman, formerly a prostitute. The ambitious lass recruited her former ""co-workers"" to work at the Hammer and Tongs in their free time, and the word on the wind is that these young women enjoy getting extra practice in, off the books. The air around the tavern is lively and tumultuous, the owner not being fully aware of what occurs in his former sanctuary. Below the tavern, a series of rat-folk tunnels connects to the cellar, and the owner has done business with the denizens below before."
The Chieftain's Crossbow,Hunter's Lodge," Secluded in the dense forests on the tall mountains, this lodge appears to be no more than a shack. Upon entering, there is a small, lightly furnished room. One might notice a dull clamor coming from some unseen source. Beneath the floor rug is a trapdoor with ladder leading fifty feet down into the center of somewhat busy pub. The patrons are mostly hunters on long hunting trips and soldiers resting from long excursions. Large, burly men and women bus between table, balancing large platters of hardy meals and carrying pyramids of drinks. The smell of the fires along the outer walls fills the air."
The Butcher and Elephant,Rural Roadside Tavern, This tavern is notable due to the pair of elephant tusks which sit over the entranceway. These originally belonged to a war beast which was left behind when it's owners were defeated in battle. A local butcher nursed the behemoth back to health and used him as a tourist attraction.
The White Tiger,Tavern on the West side of town, Of the three remaining criminal gangs in town the White Tiger pub has the best equipped. Everyone in the place has proper arms and decent armour. The bar itself is a sprawling complex - one story spread across what seems like half of the west side.
The Azure Dragon,A bar on the Eastern side of town," The Azure Dragon is five stories of slanted, falling down timber. It looks as if a strong breeze would knock the entire thing down. The criminal gang that frequents this establishment practice all manner of arcane arts from using alchemy to knock marks unconscious and burn holes in walls to sorcery to scree for the locations of things to steal."
The Black Turtle,"Inn and tavern, just outside of town on the North Road"," The Black Turtle is dark and grotty. Its one of the few places to offer bed for coin in town but its not exactly the kind of place you'd want to go to relax. The criminals that sit in the bar are a quiet lot and rarely speak, especially to outsiders. This probably just means that they will slit your throat without talking about it first, however."
The Vermillion Bird,"A brewery south of town, by the river"," For a long time the criminals that ran the Vermillion Bird stayed out of the infighting between the town gangs by supplying the other three with liquor and mead. One day however a group attacked the brewery and burned the building to the ground. Only a scorched husk remains. Its a sad tale and the angry, rough looking old man next door will tell it for free. He lost three sons and a daughter in that fire."
The Hurling Crab,Village Tavern," Run by a third generation fisherman who is plagued by constant sea sickness so he left the trade. The Hurling Crab has a bar constructed from a ship wreak. Behind the bar on the wall is a well use harpoon. Tables are mounted on top of barrels. They serve ale, hard bread, cabbage soup, and if you have fish stories rum."
The Abyss,Rough underworld bar," Down on the docks sits an outhouse like no other. During the day, the door is always locked from the inside, but at night the door is unlocked because it's actually the entryway into The Abyss. The Abyss is done in a demonic theme, with paintings of demons and devils lining the walls, serving wenches made up as succubi, and menu items like spicy Hellhound sausages. It's run by a busty human woman named Kariva, who is actually not a human woman, but rather a succubi using shapechange. And those servers dressed as succubi, oh yeah, they're actual succubi too."
The Clockwork Keg,A bar full of gnomish gadgets," A gnome tinkerer worked up a device that brews ale that could actually stand it's own against some of the finest ales in the land. It quickly grew popular, and it's inventor decided to capitalize on it's growing popularity by opening his own tavern. But, in addition to having the finest gnome ale in the land, possibly the only gnome ale in the land, the tinkerer filled the bar with a number of his contraptions, such as the peanut catapult, the drink conveyor, and the automatic fireplace as just some of the various devices in the place. Order is kept by a large clockwork golem, who seems to be just another part of the scenery of the bar until trouble starts."
That Horse House,Inn with stables," Inner-city traffic always is a nightmare - and even worse is that you'll have to find a place for your horse afterwards! This establishment, square in the centre of the city, has built large stables to accomodate its patrons mounts - and has has become infamous with its neighbours for the stench..."
Take Your Chances,Pub," This ordinary looking Pub is known for it's eclectic menu. The cook considers himself a bit of a chef, and thus encourages people to bring him various ingredients, which he then turns into unique dishes. So, a passing adventurer might bring him displacer beast meat, a farmer might have surprlus of beets, and the local cat might drop a dead bird at his doorstep, and the cook will take those ingredients, and use his extensive collection of spices and herbs to create a culinary masterpiece. Or at least he thinks it is, sometimes he's right and sometimes he's not. But, each night will bring some unusual dish for the brave gourmand."
This is NOT a Tavern,Totally a tavern," In a city oddly obsessed with irony and sarcasm, ironic false advertising seems to be par for the course. Still, ""This is NOT a Tavern"" is a nice enough place. The food is palatable, the drinks are alcoholic, and the barmaids are tall glasses of water. They take no shit from anyone, though, so don't get handsy."
The Essay,City Tavern," The Essay, situated close to the University, long ago evolved to cater for students, who now often use the excuse the next day ""I was up late, working on an essay..."" The Essay backs into a hill, with the partly underground lower floor a host to noisy discussions about philosophy and the occasional brawl, but the upper floor is filled with quite nooks with desks for quieter study over a beverage and plate of fried potatoes and onions."
The drunken Bee,Countryside tavern and brewery," Adjacent to a honey farm, the special ""Drunken Bee Amber""-Mead served in this cozy tavern comes from an alveary fed with flowers sprayed with the finest dwarven spirits every morning, hence the strong aftertaste and temporary blindness."
The silent fiddle inn,Urban inn," The centrepiece of this alehouse is its gnomish entertainer, playing his tiny fiddle weeknights - barely loud enough not to be laughed down by the clientele."
The loose board,Rural brewpub, This pub is overrun in the summer but remains shut in winter. The reason for that is the half-torn boarded wall for whose reparations the pinchpenny owner refuses to pay.
Inn of Ill Repute,Inn far from town," A cozy, safe place deep in the wilderness. However, a sacrifice is required on each visit. The more powerful the creature sacrificed, the better the accommodations. To sacrifice a hero... well that demands special accommodations doesn't it?"
The Brewer's Dozen,Dwarven Tavern," A rowdy dwarven tavern best known for its signature drink, The Brewer's Dozen - thirteen pints of ale in a gigantic mug."
Grotto of Fallen Stars,Fairy Ring," Just as humanity and its ilk are oft to gather under comfortable roofs and warm halls to trade stories and drink spirits, the fey have their gathering places. Hidden among the game trails of the forest, the Grotto of Fallen Stars is a cavern cut into limestone rock filled with a deep pool of night-black water. The hollows in the limestone above the pool are large enough for the pixies and sprites to have built their own personal chambers within where they dine, dance and entertain their guests with the help of the curious flowers that bloom from the grotto pool. These flowers, often called ""Wolf's Tears"" by mortals bloom upon the water with striking white petals. The nectar of the Wolf's Tear is a poison to mortal kind, but a delightful liquor to the fey."
Four Doors,Inn at a crossroads," This timbered, whitewashed inn sits directly on top of the crossroads between the North Road and the Trade Way. The in has four doors- one at each point of the compass- to accept travelers from every direction. The clientele is mostly caravan guards, merchants and drovers, but the Four Doors has seen every race and profession at its square bar in the center of the room."
The Rotter's Saucer,Dive bar on the wrong side of town," It was maybe a half century ago that the Saucer was on the right side of town, but times change and this once-reputable neighbourhood has fallen into decline. These days this dive bar is favoured by down-on-their-luck Halflings who sigh fondly about the old days and scheme to get their comfortable lives back."
Last Retort,Tavern and stage," This elaborately-decorated tavern is most famous for its all-night rhyming competitions, which draw performers and wits from across town on the first night of the new moon. The reigning champion is Amberdel Quazitz, a gnome of gross size blessed with a nimble mind."
The Prince and Wagon,Beer garden," This open-air patio is set up only in summer time, taking up most of the town square. Revellers and athletes come from the summer games to enjoy a pint in the sun and swap tales of their feats of strength and daring. The patrons are always good for a bet or a dare, as long as it's in good humour. Closed when raining."
Gummy Murphy's,Roadside Inn," A very popular pub known for it's cheap prices and sultry waitresses. It is usually overcrowded after standard working hours, filled with those willing to lose the days coin on cheap grog and gambling. Given the size of the clientele fights break out with some frequency. ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ ~~ Sporting a sign of the proprietor, an old toothless man, this Inn is one of the few places recommended for travelling families and the elderly. It sports some infamy for not serving any solid food."
The Bee and the Barb,major city mead hall," A large hall of revelry and merriment,between the famous mead, and the adventures guild the owners Dimtri and Pavlov run on the side, there is never a dull moment at the bee and the barb"
the Solution,dive bar," Alcohol is the cause of and solution to everyone's problems here, and while the booze is always flowing, there isn't exactly alot else here besides a lot of drunk men gambling what few coppers they have away"
Ale 'n Bail,Outdoor Streetside Bar," Little more than a counter with single ill-mannered half-orc barkeep. Ale 'n Bail is well situated on the main thoroughfare of a large city, perfect for the adventurer who needs his quick fix."
Hammerfist's Pub,"""Generic"" Dwarven Pub"," While at first glance Hammerfist's seems like the same tavern you've seen every time you stumbled into a Dwarven city, there is more than meets the eye. There are whispers about what is going on in the basement of Hurin Hammerfist's establishment. A particularly charismatic adventurer may have some luck ordering a hidden menu item."
The Twisted Narafruit,"Vineyard Owned, Upscale Restaurant"," Opulent, scrupulous, and distinct, this elf-owned restaurant is where the latest vintages of Vash'a Vineyards are enjoyed by the local elites. To even get into such a place, adventurers would have to befriend one of the local lords or merchant barons."
Hell's Waiting Room,Tavern with Inn," Comfortable two story building with fifteen tables, a bar, and four nice rooms upstairs. Shadrach, the Tiefling tavern owner is know for his reasonable prices and his willingness to allow travelers with little coin to sleep on the tavern floor once the Waiting Room closes, provided that they at least buy food or a drink. The catch? Shadrach worships a pit fiend. He has a secret room beneath the floor of the tavern where he sacrifices vagrants whom he deems will not be missed. He has gotten away with it for years."
The Dawning Sun,Brewery and Tavern," The man running this place was once a Cleric. Acting evasive when asiel about his past the Cleric is seen as odd. His brews are legendary though, Saïd to contain a spark of divine energy, the Beers and Ales granaten effects to ordinary people. All who ask how it is made get the same answer ""Secret Recipe"""
The Five-Legged Toad,Urban Dive Bar," The Five-Legged Toad is a run-down dive bar in an alley. It attracts a strange mix of vagrants, criminals, and university students. However, there's more to this bar than meets the eye: a secret basement room serves as the headquarters for the city's subversive underground newspaper."
Ravensbeak Club,Upper-class club and brewery," The Ravensbeak Club, owned by a wealthy necromancer, is a favorite spot for aristocrats, merchant princes, and wizards. It caters to those with exquisite taste and little regard for money. The upper crust of the city come here to sit in expensive armchairs and sip one-of-a-kind drinks, served by skeletal waiters."
Witches Haven,Inn with Pocket Dimensions, This inn right off the docks is run by a group of Sea Hags disguised as Innkeepers; each room is a pocket dimension unto itself. There is only 1 key per room; but the Hags have a master key as well.
Goblin Kick,Merchant town Inn with Tavern, The sign on the front door depicts a goblin getting kicked in the butt. The tavern air is filled with a good laughter and friendly talk. The most popular activity inside is gambling with a sturdy tradition the table loser getting kicked like a goblin from the tavern sign by the table winner.
The Virgins' Virtue,Roadside Inn and Tavern," The proprietor of The Virgins' Virtue is a barrel-chested man, as strong as an ox, and the self-appointed defender of the virtue of his five daughters. Unbeknownst to their father, his five daughters have long ago abandoned both their virginity and their virtue. They quietly run the inn as a clandestine brothel, happily selling themselves and any of the tavern wenches who are in need of a bit more coin. You've likely heard of this inn, as it is known by many sailors, travelers, and merchants by another name, ""The Whoring Virgin."""
Carvers' Pub,Brewpub," Nestled in a corner of the village Mariss, this pub is the leisure center for pretty much everyone in town. This pub is famed for its Blood Ale, drawing in folk of all races though the true strength of this draw is most likely from the well known challenge that no one but the original proprietor of the Carvers' Pub has been able to complete, a challenge to eat an extraordinary amount of food and wash it down with a full keg of Blood Ale."
The Cavern and Creature,Gaming Tavern," Named for the game that it popularized, the Cavern and Creature is a well established 4-story luxurious establishment benefiting from a unique clientele and offering many gaming services on their premises. Though the game Caverns and Creatures remains woefully lacking compared to the most popular of other games, this Tavern is well equipped, devoting its entire 2nd floor to gaming tables specially designed for the game, as well as stocking specialty dice sets and always stocking spare character sheets. This tavern is located in the small city of Autumn's Burrow."
The Cock and Pullet,Crossroads Tavern and Inn," Located at the crossroads of two large trade routes you can find this large inn. A placard out front has a carved rooster and hen. Across the road you'll find the wagon house, a place where traders can securely store wagons and board animals for a small fee. The inn has every amenity a traveler could hope for, a hot bath, gamboling parlor, even some basic shopping. All manner of food and drink are available in the tavern, to meet the tastes of nearly any guest. While the inn doesn't officially endorse it, there are a number of 'ladies of the lot' as they are known there, should a patron have such an urge. Behind the inn you can find a magical wood, thick and absolutely lousy with fey creatures. Perhaps the Innkeeper has struck some deal as they never enter the inn property, but unwary guest have wandered too close and often come back with wild and even hilarious tales, or sometimes the don't return at all."
The Oasis,Roadside Tavern," The Oasis is a small tavern next to the only safe road through a vast desert. They sell watered ale for highly inflated price, but patrons are usually thirsty enough to pay it. They serve little else other than watered ale, save for camel stew, and corn bread. There are two staff, the grizzled owner Jackal, and a dark-skinned half-elf guitar player named D'a'Rude. D'a'Rude only knows one song, which he plays over and over again."
The Sitting Duck,Tavern Frequented By Adventurers," The Sitting Duck is right across the street from the local guard barracks, where you can, amongst other things, turn in your bounties. Many adventurers and monster hunters go here to turn their cash reward directly into alcohol. The Tavern hosts the infamous “Black Board”, which is just a black painted section of wooden wall where anyone can pin anything from lost and found to bounties. The sitting Duck is a somewhat frequent target of Guard raids. The tavern is claustrophobic and dim lit, the individual tables are separated by wooden walls. Right next to the entrance there is a section of wall that is completely painted black and littered with more or less legal job offers. An old fragile man with tattered scribes’ robes will offer to read the papers to illiterate adventurers. The windows have iron bars on the inside of the glass, so no fleeing patron would break them."
What about that shadowy place?,"A single, dingy lantern swings on a rusted iron lamppost just outside the alleyway. You approach, back turned to the howling of the wind, and slide a single gold coin into a slot in the rough metal. A voice whispers from over your shoulder: ""So... What can the Thieves' Guild do for you tonight?"""," Last week we did some elevated thinking, so let's bring it back to the seedier elements of society, far from any ivory towers. A collective of smugglers hiding in an abandoned warehouse, or maybe a gang of pirates precariously perched upon a beached ship. Any wretched hive of scum and villainy is fair game, here. The locations themselves don't necessarily have to be developed thoroughly; we're looking for places that could be dropped into any campaign by any DM. I'll provide some examples. Now..."
The Wretched Ketch,Dockside bar," Built from the half-smashed hulk of a sailing vessel propped up against the cliffside, the Wretched Ketch gives even the seediest of taverns a run for their money. A dirt floor, dim lighting, and terrible alcohol characterize this watering hole for the worst of society almost as much as the terrible fish-and-excrement smell. At the very least, it's cheap--and the bedbugs are free of charge."
Home Free,Bolthole," When one is in the business of liberating shiny objects from their rightful owners, sometimes it's necessary to go underground. Usually, one can get away with going to the next town over, or blending into a crowd. For the times when even those tried-and-true methods fail, you're Home Free. An otherwise unremarkable farmhouse in the middle of scenic nowhere conceals an underground vault, with preserved food, bedding, and healing supplies for three to four people. Just mention to the elderly couple above that you are ""Home Free,"" and they'll provide you with the key to the passage under the barn."
Bitter Grin Cove,Smugglers' Den," Contrary to the name, Bitter Grin Cove is neither a cove, nor even on the sea at all. Instead, it's a series of abandoned dwarven warehouses, tunnels, and living quarters that a smuggling ring have repurposed for their own business ventures. Thousands of gold pieces' worth of ill-begotten goods pass through the Cove each week, and its low profile and misleading name help keep intrepid investigators off the trail."
Harvand's House of Cheese,Fence," Once a legitimate business, customers who visit Harvand's looking for fine cheese will now leave a little confused. The cheese behind the counter is hard and cracked, and the man behind the counter wears leather armor behind his apron. But if you are looking to offload something that has a dubious history of acquisition, 'Harvand' will be able to help. And if you are looking to purchase, just ask, and he may have something for you at discount prices."
Barrels Point,Smuggler's Den," Long ago a trading vessel foundered off the coast. Needing to offload weight, they dumped dozens of huge oak wine barrels into the sea. Now hoisted above the shoreline into the bushes, the remains of the barrels have been converted into a series of small buildings where smugglers may store goods and trade. They still smell pleasantly of aged oak."
The Keyhole,Thieves Den," Privacy is hard to come by in the treeless frozen wastes to the north, so any cave is sure to by occupied, but the Keyhole is far from ideal. The only entrances are a narrow squeeze barely wide enough for a man, and a long drop down a rope from a ceiling hole 60ft in the air. Despite this, the Keyhole is warm, and furnishings have been brought in part-by-part to make this a relatively accommodating refuge for thieves and ne'er-do-wells."
The Angry Squid Tavern and Rooming Company,Riverside inn," this innocent looking inn on the side of a river is really a front to a smuggling ring, the inside is well kept and well lit, but the men the barman knows by name are not your average fisherman..."
The Lord's Bridge,Bolthole," It's best not to think too hard about the architectural choices that led to the gap in the abutment of the Lord's Bridge, because in a pinch it makes for a great place to hide. The space inside is small but dry, and the entrance so cleverly hidden under the bridge that it almost looks as though someone has vanished into thin air."
Deadfalls,Thieves Den," In the forest by this remote town lies a twisted tangle of fallen trees, bleached grey with age. The pile is impossible to climb over, but there is a way to pick a careful path under and through the logs and branches to the small hut beyond."
The Museum of Curiosities,Fence," Anyone can enter the Museum of Curiosities (for a small fee). Within the huge room is crammed with objects, piled on the floor, slotted into shelves or hanging from the ceiling. Many are strange and interesting (stuffed sharks, a bone chandelier, books on invented creatures), but a great number are completely mundane. The proprietor, Varvick, is always happy to make new acquisitions without asking too many questions and hints that the items on display can also be purchased for a price."
Summer Fair,Black Market," Despite it's name, the Summer Fair runs all year round. An eccentric noble loved the Fair so much, he invited it into the grounds of his Estate for free on the condition that it kept going permanently. Over the years, however, the purpose of the Fair has slowly changed and now besides the ordinary citizens buying snacks and enjoying performances, you can also find dubious stalls hawking even less legitimate goods."
Patigan's Restaurant,Thieves Guild," When the head of the Thieves Guild enjoys the finer life, you end up with a place like Patigan's. Here Thieves can dine openly while they undertake negotiations, as the tables are widely placed in the large, decadent room, and there are plenty of private rooms available for more discreet meetings. The food is also excellent, and provides a good source of clean gold for the proprietor."
The Blooded Leech,Speakeasy?," The bouncer is frighteningly well-armed, the bartender is aggressively indifferent to anything but cold silver, and the entire room seems to be built from nothing but moody back corners. But whisper the secret word into the ear of the right hooded stranger, and he'll lead you down a narrow corridor, out the back door, down a flight of stairs, and through the crumbling threshold of a derelict warehouse, where the man who sold you the password sharpens his long knife, waiting to relieve you of everything you own."
Falter's Crag,Mountain Fortress," Built, abandoned, reclaimed, taken by force, and abandoned again, the old castle has forever been a stepping stone to greater, more important things. With none of the elegance of the lowland keeps, and with few of the defenses of the all-important valley strongholds, Falter has always served as a sort of waypoint, a staging ground for the next leg of whatever campaign it's been pulled into. Recently, however, an enterprising group of former highwaymen (who prefer the terms 'mercenaries' or 'sellspears') have occupied the old outbuildings and walls of the fortress, doing their best to make it somewhat presentable again. They're friendly enough to outsiders, and seem on guarded but cordial terms with the goatherds and herb-gatherers that roam the steep hills above the keep. But when pressed about why they've taken up in the old fortress, or who employs them and pays for the growing supply of provisions and weapons, the mercenaries are carefully reticent."
The Fox and the Butcher,Grey Market," You can't step into the Fox without somehow discussing The Old Proprietor, a businessman of impeccable taste and acumen, or so they say. Gallant. Chivalrous. Stalwart. On the wall above the till, the cleaver he supposedly carried into battle hangs from a bent nail, and when the draft kicks up from the harbor, it creaks back and forth in a rusty arc. What's strange is that there doesn't seem to be a new proprietor; the old woman who slowly wraps headless fish in brown paper certainly isn't one, nor the acne-scarred youth who sweeps the floor. Most don't seem to care, though - you can get things at the Fox that you can't get elsewhere, and they're always willing to buy low-risk merchandise. In the rare case that the constabulary come sniffing, The Old Proprietor's reputation (and a few silver) is almost always enough to send their search elsewhere."
Grizzlegut's Boon,Sellsword & Sailor Gathering Place," Once the waterside home of Sea King Grizzlegut, this mansion now serves as a meeting place for mercenaries and their next line of work. Years of exploration and pillaging brought luxuries to the mansion, now decorated with exotic furniture, ornate artworks, and masses of intriguing texts. Sword and buyer alike can find respite in rooms built to house Grizzlegut's hefty crew."
Underskin Watch,Thieves hideout," Latched doors open to a workshop saturated with the pungent odor of toxins and decay. Numerous chemists work at specialized tables speckled around the room, concocting every poison ever used in the folly of men. The Watch's visitors keep constant vigilance of every entrance and exit in exchange for the right to purchase the poisons of their choosing."
Blackhall,Regal Scumpit," Each and every lord needs willing followers to do what he cannot, and so beneath every city lies a hall. A hall of black and cold, where loyal servants wait to carry out their next tasks. Separate from humanity, this hall houses secrets darker than the ones brought to it from the realm of men, secrets untold, but not forgotten."
Roy's,Dive Bar," Welcome to Roys! Everyone here is called Roy. Cept the Bartender, thats good ole Barry. But everyone is called Roy that goes in. No one cares for your name outside the bar."
Half Sunked,Bar!," Lord Bately ship, is just as stubbord as Lord Bately. On its last voyage, where it lost a part of its keel, and took on water. To only become irreparable once in sight of port. But it just got about half way."
The Blue Oyster Bar,Dockside Tavern," A small, rickety wooden structure at the end of the Mill Street Pier, the Blue Oyster Bar is known for its fresh oysters, skunky ale, strong rum, and tales of the sea. If you want to hire a sailor, you should head to the city, but if you want to connect with a ship's captain, this is the place. Most of the best merchant vessel captains can be found here, but so can the best—and worst—pirate captains."
The Plundering Dragon,Dockside Inn and Tavern," A half block up Mill Street from the waterfront is the Plundering Dragon, a warm place with a roaring fire and welcoming barmaids. The interior of this large inn and tavern is decorated with all manner of souvenirs brought back by sailors from the far reaches of the world. The girls are notorious for their wandering fingers, which easily find their way inside a man's purse. A joke goes that every feather, dress, seashell, spearhead, knife, and totem hanging on the walls has been ""twice-plundered""—once from its native land and again from the sailor who carried it back."
The Ox and Plowman,Roadside Inn," Travelers will find more welcome at the Ox and Plowman than from any in the nearby villages—filled with superstitious and fearful peasants. The two-story stone inn has a half-dozen rooms for rent and a cellar full of wine for drink. The owner and proprietor of the inn is a beautiful woman named Brynna who is rumored to be romantically involved with Jonan the Black Wolf, a notorious outlaw in the valley. Several ruffians who claim allegiance to the Black Wolf often come to eat, to drink, and to dice at the Ox and Plowman."
Wreckrife Straits,Smugglers' Run," Between Cape Flounder Island and the mainland are the Wreckrife Straits, a winding and narrow path of rough waters that only the bravest or the most foolish captains will dare to sail. Rocks, reefs, and howling winds make this a dangerous passage even for small craft piloted by seasoned captains. Running the Straits cuts at least three days off the journey around Cape Flounder, a risk some smugglers are willing to take to avoid naval battles and to outrun rivals."
Toad's Baitshop,"Riverside Storefront, Black Market Fence"," Toad's Baitshop isn't really the best place in town to go for live bait, fish line, and netting repairs, but you could do worse. However, if you're looking to unload something hot or to locate some stolen goods, Toad's is a good place to start. Old Toad is very discreet but stingy; he buys low and sells high. Ask him about his new ""sticky nightcrawlers"" if you want to see what's just come in."
Tymon's Cooperage,"Workshop, Black Market Fence"," Tymon is as good a cooper as you'll find. He often has only a single apprentice at a time whom he assures you can trust. Tymon's shop has a cellar full of ""finished"" barrels awaiting shipment. Tymon has an unsual numbering system for each barrel crafted in his shop, a secret code of sorts, and he uses it to provide a ""holding service"" for local thieves. He rarely sells the stuff that comes into his shop directly, but his services are worth what he charges to hold things while the heat after a heist cools off. For considerably more, he'll even orchestrate a delivery of some ""finished"" barrels, allowing thieves to get their goods out of town without attracting attention from the constabulary."
Meats and Meads,Butcher Shop and Brewery," Tucked away in a small unlit alley lies a rather simple looking establishment, pungent with the smell of rotting roasts and stale ales. Their primary export is their signature wine that bears a telling deep crimson color and a heavy metallic taste; many of the meats come in rather small lean cuts, uncommon for larger game animals. On occasion, people dressed in dark colors are seen dragging heavy bundles of cloth and fabric into the back of the store in the dead of night, only to leave empty handed."
The Iron Maiden,Armory," A quick glance into the store would immediately leave you feeling cautious. Thorny sets of vicious looking armors stand on mannequins near the doorway, and a large selection of brutal weapons line the walls. You won't find any clubs or quarterstaves here, everything you see around you appears to be designed to draw blood, from notched whips, to morning stars, to vicious looking daggers. Various chains and shackles lie in bargain bins along the floor, and you may occasionally glance a bloodshot eye peering up from between the floorboards, or a muffled whimper from under your feet."
The Widowmaker,Gathering Hall," A place where the ale never runs dry and the patrons are always in a good mood. At first glance, everything seems a little too neat, a place perfect to attract adventurers and wanderers. A giant board covered in job postings lies directly inside the door, and you'll notice that each of them ends with ""Please meet in the back for further details."" Those who walk into that cellar never walk back out, and the job postings never seem to change, but otherwise it's a relatively safe place to eat, drink and be merry, though newcomers aren't recommended to frequent the establishment alone, just in case."
Alchemist's Fire,Apothecary," The potions sold by the owner of the store are known to be functional at best, and the sickly pallor and various chemical burns along his exposed skin may be a little more telling. He wears an intricately crafted full faced mask in the shape of a bird's head at all times, and a dirty leather coat that bulges and stretches in odd places. It is recommended you ask to see his ""special selection"", as this is where his work really shines. Countless Poisons, Acids and deadly chemical mixtures of all sorts hide under his thick jacket, and he's open to any questions you may have about delivering them."
The Kraken's Lunch,Small seafood restaurant and bar near the docks.," During normal hours they cater primarily to sailors and those that work the docks. Rumours abound however of shadier goings on once the lamps go off, however guards have never been able to prove anything."
The Lost Cove,Smugglers Den," Off the coast of the nearby city, far enough where no one could easily see boats coming in or out lies a cove not on any map. Riches lay there waiting to be taken into the city and sold on the markets, brought in by merchants looking to offload cargo they could not otherwise sell and through more shady means."
Emperors Jewels,Thieves Guild," Officially sanctioned, though never publicly mentioned, this guild sits behind a hidden door in the Imperial Gardens. They are led by The Faceless Man and given jobs by the emperor and other freelance contracts at their discretion."
Stallion's Canter,Fence/Tavern," This mild-mannered-appearing tavern is actually a well known fence in the underworld. Using the right phrases and figures of speech, those in the know bargain with the fence (the barman), while appearing to discuss prices of drinks, food, bedding, and other accommodations. The goods are always left on the bargainer's horse, to be taken into a cellar by a ""stable hand"" after the bargaining is complete. Those ignorant of the tavern's true nature can enjoy an evening here, albeit at a higher price than they can expect from its nearby competitors."
Dirty Meg's,Chop Shop," Dirty Meg is known for running a clean business, despite her dirty leanings. She gives fair deals and never cheats a customer, but knows when to ask questions and when to let things slide. She has an ironclad policy against squealing to the authorities on her clientele, but she's been known to dump a hot item at the customer's expense if the heat comes around."
The Gilded Leaf,Forest Tavern," Many consider the elves to be graceful, elegant creatures nigh incapable of crime, and a first glance at the Gilded Leaf would confirm this suspicion. Built into a living tree, the Gilded Leaf seems warm and friendly, with smooth wood floors; a crackling hearth that burns with magical flame; and the smoothest wine an elf could ask for. Whisper the password (which you must coax out of a nearby fey) to the barkeep, however, and he'll direct you to the secret entrances leading to a thieves den built around the roots of the tree."
Ectoplasm,Sunken Ship Bar," The treacherous waters of Baron's Reef has claimed many a merchant, navy, or pirate seeking a shortcut, leading to rumors of ghost ships and krakens pulling sailors to their doom. If you know the waters well, you can sail through the deadly rocks and half-submerged ships to Ectoplasm, a pirate hotspot built onto a massive partially sunken galleon. Whether you want exotic drink, thrilling gambling, or the finest (and only) wenches in the middle of the ocean, Ectoplasm has your vice."
Cliffkeep,Cliffside Fortress," Hidden amidst the maze of canyons in the Sea of Sands, Cliffkeep is a secretive sandstone fortress built to serve an ancient guild of assassins. From the canyon floor or ridge, you can only see a few walls, windows, and buildings that sit about 150 feet off the canyon floor. However, secret tunnels and narrow, hidden crevices lead from the surrounding desert into the fortress, leading guards, bounty hunters, and armies to claim that their quarry simply vanish into the canyon. Cliffkeep is now the home of a marauding gang of bandits and thieves, but remnants of the assassins remain in secret rooms and trapped passages and vaults."
Windún,Mountain tavern," Carved into the very rock itself, Windún is hidden from prying eyes and was once the proud place of rest for those who ventured toward the ancient dwarven empire of Yaar'tag. Since the kingdom fell into disarray and avarice many winters ago, so too did its nefarious end meet Windún and corrupt its jovial character. Now, the tavern is a thieves inn where the most prestigious thieves and their orders congregate and sell wares to fences and the ever expanding under-market. The heavy smell of sweat and malted beer fills the air and as you enter, you notice faces lined with experience and scarred with villainy."
The Pit,Slave market," Where winding, narrow alleys writhe gnarled through the city, here is that place where old wives scare children with tales of slavery and chattel. The Pit had always been a place of unrest and was first a gambling den. Over time, the stakes rose and the bets became higher. There are still games played today where the scum of the land laugh and drink whilst their property is beaten and shoved between new master and old. For the most part, clothed in rags and held by rusting chains, the slaves stand silently at the market, waiting to be bought and hoping to be freed."
Ganga ni Wana,?," Compared to most places, the Wana seems relatively tame, albeit remote and some several miles from the nearest settlement. Drinks flow and the rich smell of food wafts over the tables. There is drunkenness and lechery abound, that is true. Yet it is usually no worse than any other tavern or inn by its debauchery. There are rumours, however, on what happens past the twilight hours, when most have left for their homes. A few new patrons stay behind, lured by the drink and other inviting pleasures. And some wandering travellers have claimed that in the quiet, bloodcurdling screams pierce through the silence before fading into nothing once more."
Yduro,Docklands," Meandering walkways and streets that twist inward and crumble near the sea, the heady smell of fish lingering in the air and the shouts of fishmongers. Nobles, profligate and drunk, sprawled on the street and there is a metallic taste to the water around here. Yduro has steadily declined as multiple decrees have stifled its trade to other docks. Its good heavily monitored once they leave the area, the locals have turned upon each other, scrapping for every morsel of good food that now seldom comes through here. Poverty and starvation reign and they have engendered much sin of late."
Ofþrycca,Nefarious chemist," Run by the dubious apothecary Ranwyn Oltarn, the little shop nestled within the sprawling alleys of the city is known to many as Ofþrycca or Oftha to the commoners. At any time of day, a thick, coloured smog emanates from its doors and the overwhelming smell of strange herbs chokes the street. Oltarn is rumoured to experiment on his patients, concocting strange recipes that detractors have accused makes the 'victim' suffer from a deep depression and a wasting sickness. There are some, in the darker underbelly of society, who swear by Oltarn's brews, claiming it gives them heightened awareness and prowess, if only afflicting them with strange visions at times."
Dorgadoon,Disused bell tower," Currently inhabited by bandits and rouges, the Dorgadoon was once a majestic bell tower that called those within the Barony of Corval to prayer. A ruined church lies at the hard, stone base of Dorgadoon and every year, a lone pilgrim makes their march to the place, laying a single flower where the altar once stood. Who they are and why they do this is unknown and the Grasping Hand who inhabit the place now could not care less."
The Watch,Cultist church," The Watch has long been a font of rumours and farmer saws. Shrouded in mystery and perched atop a cliff overlooking the sea, its first inhabitant was said to be a necromancer who had died many winters ago. In reality, the cult that had formed around him keep his life permanently upon the edge of death; it is believed by the Watch that the greatest secrets of necromancy are learned in this way and thus, his sallow corpse wheezes with the final vestiges of life, desperate for death but unable to grasp at it."
Sangava,Smuggler's stall," Each week in the market square, a lone stall sets up and seems to sell almost nothing of worth. Some odd trinkets here and there and a few wrapped meats but, in all, unremarkable and this is precisely how the Sangavi like it. Carefully choosing their clients, the Sangavi have developed an extensive trade network formed through intense trust and brutal reprimands. And so, a few hours before the weekly market, a tunnel is dug beneath the stall's desired location and goods from strange and forbidden lands funnelled through. As silently as they arrived, the tunnel is sealed and the Sangavi merchant heads home once more."
Black Flagon,Inn and tavern," A tavern buried within the poor district, the place is almost always visited by those who live in the area. The gentry believe the place to be fairly unassuming and allow the Flagon to proceed unchecked, believing it provides some relief to the commoners. In reality, the Black Flagon is the home of Fayvel's Own, a band of vagabonds and rogues who steal from anyone and anything. Rough and rowdy, the tavern is in a state of disrepair and it doesn't look as if it will be improved any time soon. Sodden clothes, wet with sweat and mead and stale fish linger in the air. Originally reselling artefacts and wondrous items, Fayvel's gang have become increasingly adept at hiding in plain sight and blending in with the nobility, such that they now sell information too. Their most recent exploits have uncovered some troubling news."
Grog.,Tavern," The innkeeper of Grog is direct and to the point, as is perhaps evident from the name of his establishment. Heldar Tharynn is a stout dwarf who dislikes long conversation and is motivated by a certain sort of greed. Unable to competently fight any longer, Heldar pays good coin and provides free food and board to those who return with a sizable treasure from the elder dragon Y'ntaraj for reasons unknown. Inevitably, word of this has attracted a certain sort of customer and many patrons of Grog often discuss how to reach the lair of the beast and slip past unseen. As of yet, very few have returned alive."
Whispering Lady,Information Source," Nestled in the middle of the docks is an aging but clean building, once inside you are greeted in a small waiting room by a well dressed servent. If you have the coin you can go in and be seated at on of the many private tables, and booths in the building, or for a ""small"" fee the maitre d' will take you to one of the semi-permanent residents tables so you may buy, or sell information. Additionally this is the perfect place to meet informants, broker deals, or pass information, as the owner has made sure it is protected from all forms of divination and has standing agreements with both the City guard and the thieves guild for protection. Your Secrets are safe here."
Dancing Bear,Hell(AKA dive bar)," Clapboard coats the outside of the building, each piece seemly put there at different times, the windows have no glass but rather have waxed cloth coverings, the cloth itself torn and patched. Upon entering you find a single room makes up the entire building, the ""kitchen"" is a fire pit in one corner with smoke allowed to flow freely through the room and up out the sheltered hole that serves as a chimney. The bar lines the far wall, made from old barrels and topped by sweat polished wood that seems to have come from a neighboring building at one time. As the door closes behind you with the screech of ungreased hinges and the slap of wood many of the patrons glance up, and you feel the weighing stare of armed men considering robing you."
The Silken Veils,Brothel," Sitting alone with a small garden on each side, and a high iron fence all around the property, The Silken Veil does not even try to fit in with the squalor of it's surroundings. Fresh paint gleams on every inch exterior, and perfect glass sits in the two bay window frames in the front. Standing behind the glass are two Women coated head to toe in silk so sheer you swear you could see right through it if they were not wearing countless layers. As you walk in the front door you see several hulking men standing at their ease in corners, and if you listen closely you think you can hear the clinking of armor in the walls. A older women sits behind the front desk, and greet you warmly with a smile. Sitting infront of her is a large book with what appears to be drawings of women on each page."
Grandma Gertrude's Gardening Grove,Thieves Guild," Most people think of Grandma Gertrude as a kindly sweet old lady who runs a Gardening shop on the edge of the city with quaint little gardens growing around her shop. What most don't know is that she was one time known as Grim Gertie, and was one of the most ruthless thieves of the lands. Now, she has settled down and taken over control of the local thieves guild using her gardening shop as a cover. She has dug various tunnels under the city, and thanks to dwarven contractors, they are more than mere tunnels. An elaborate maze of tunnels, laid with all sorts of traps, which can only be bypassed if Gertrude gives you a special pin to wear for gardening prowess. Inside this tunnel network, are training grounds, a black market, a barrister's office, an inn, a flop room, and a well secured fence's caged office area, where multiple fences buy stolen goods, depending on their specialty. One fence will only buy art items, another jewelry, etc."
The Avaricium Arcane,Thieves guild for those who mix magic with their larceny," Near the docks stand a nondescript building with no windows, and only one door. The door is trapped with numerous magical traps that a rogue would have to bypass to open the door, but for those skilled enough to deactivate the magical traps and open the door, another ugly surprise awaits as all they will see is the wall. The real door is hidden under an illusion on another wall. Once they do manage to prove their skilled enough with magic to find the real door, they can enter inside where they find a small bar tended by unseen bar servants, a job listings board, and a fence or two buying and selling magic items, spellbooks, and other things a thieving mage might need."
The Canopy,Pirate hideout," Hidden in the highest treetops of an ancient jungle resides an elven tribe who hunt for great treasure rather than for small game. Ropes and pulley systems are strung throughout the branches making movement between the many platforms swift and simple. Only the most skilled of acrobats can navigate this maze of loose planks and vines without falling to the jungle floor far, far below."
Swan's Inn,Town tavern & inn," Built from the ground up during the town's earliest days, Swan's Inn perfectly balances the feeling of a seedy bar with the reputation of a respectable establishment. Despite being a well-known front for the local thieves' guild, it's the safest place to be in town--provided that you don't mind parting with your coin purse after a while."
Carpenter’s Guild,Thieves’ Den," Masquerading as construction contractors this thieves’ den already has detailed blueprints of every mark they’re going to hit. Every member always carries around hammer and nails and will use these to defend themselves when caught. The locals aren’t sure what’s the bigger robbery, the heists they pull or the prices they charge"
Spitting Distance,Tavern," This tavern is a favorite spot for criminals and lowlifes in the city, situated just above town hall there is a large deck from which the patrons can show their appreciation of the local governments efforts. The place is crowded every night of the week and it is easy to find a fence—or three—on any given night. Some government officials have taken to going to the bar after work and spending their nights cheek by jowl with pirates and smugglers. No one can tell who is worse."
The Black Hand,Thieve’s Den," Located in Lars MegaDark’s mother’s basement, this thieves den demands that ACDC music plays all the time in their hideout. The members all wear only black and are forbidden to cut their hair. They are embroiled in a violent turf war with Queen’s Gambit (although no Queen’s Gambit member even recognizes the name “Black Hand”)"
Neptune’s End,Cultist Temple," This warehouse has a ring of smugglers masquerading as a Cthulhu worshipping cult, protected under the cities freedom of religion laws. The dingy driftwood built temple and non-euclidean statues inside make a surprisingly good cover and some of the smugglers get really into the act."
Salty Pete’s Delivery Service,Parcel Delivery," Salty Pete is a charismatic and brash veteran of the seas who can literally smell gold and opportunity. Based out of a squat 1 story shack of an office, his ships will get you past the local customs alright but they’re made to outpace things much worse, and much faster, out on the open sea."
Third Eye Academy,Psionic University," Formally founded to advance the study of psionics, up to two thirds of the grant money given to the university is actually used to ground up the psionic crystals into a fine hallucinogenic powder which the “professors” sell on the side, pocketing the profit themselves."
The Mermaid’s Tit,Pirate Sloop," Formally used to run down merchant vessels on the open water, Captain Gruntheim realized the party circuit is a lot more lucrative and converted his ship into a booze cruise that sails nobles around the royal harbor all night. For a hefty fee, you can rent out the entire deck and convince the captain to sail the ship into international waters for the really wild parties."
The Drop,Tavern," This tavern makes quite the effort to attract adventurer and pirate alike and isn’t afraid to show off their own set of weapons and each bartender has enough war stories to fill a novel. This is all for good reason, since rumors fly that the local mob runs the especially big drops through this bar. In actuality, it isn’t a mob bar at all and they haven’t handled a single drop, but the tavern uses it as a marketing tactic, and the mob doesn’t want anyone talking about the real drop bars."
The tavern for incredibly heroic heroes on heroic quests,Tavern," A tavern run by a couple of con-men aimed at catering specifically to adventurers selling scrolls of fireball (fake) and potions of healing (sewer water) in addition to the usual lodgings, food, and alcohol"
Water's Edge,Town, Water's Edge is a small hamlet on the northern edge of the Blue Lake. The northern half of the town is bordered by another C-shaped lake that is about 100 yards wide and is known as Reese's Folly. Stretching south of town into the Blue Lake is a series of small islands that each hold one or two farms. The islands are connected by wooden bridges or rope drawn ferries. These islands are known to the locals as Reese's Pieces. The story goes that a dwarf named Reese bought the northern half of the Blue Lake and planned on dredging it to create land to sell off. His plan halted abruptly when he disappeared and was never seen again.
Where in the Hells are we?,You get a feeling of peace as you approach the fountain of the Goddess. The hum of the city streets seems to go silent as you take that first step up to approach it.," Last week, we made some unholy dungeons, so to maintain balance, let's collect some holy places. These locations could be officially sanctioned holy sites, sites revered only by locals, or places where men and women of the cloth gather for prayer or socializing. The locations do not have to be developed deeply, but they should have enough suggested content that any DM could easily drop them into his or her world. I'll post a few examples."
The Tempered Hare,Blacksmith," The regular beat of the smithy's hammer, the creaking turn of the water wheel, the murmur of shop talk on a busy day; The Tempered Hare is known by locals as a place of loud, clangorous peace, and it's not uncommon for the back room to host a game of draughts during a long summer's afternoon. The Smith himself - one Pitor Longshanks - always has a kind word, and has no trouble keeping conversation if you can stand the heat of his furnace."
Urthgroth's Fall,Battlefield," In life, Urthgroth was a mighty Chieftan of the fractious Northern Warholds, renowned for his prowess with the greatspear, feared for his unwavering sense of destruction. In his final campaign, he laid waste to every village he came upon, at one point marching three days out of his way with more than a thousand Orcs to burn a coastal fishing town to the ground. In the end, he was felled by a pitchfork thrown by a desperate peasant in a wheat field, and the lingering nature of his gradual death gave him a level of retrospection he'd rarely been afforded in life. After being raised into undeath by the camp necromancer, he devoted his brief lichdom to reuniting the Orc tribes under a banner of sustainable conquest, leading to a resurgence of the empire of old."
Sunshale,Desert Temple," With deft flicks of their brooms, the lay monks sweep the encroaching desert sand out of the temple, weaving overlapping, ever-expanding concentric circles. Each monk sweeps from sunrise to sunset (or sunset to sunrise), murmuring quiet prayers throughout, pausing only at noon and midnight to take simple meals of rice porridge and steamed fish. Those who aren't sweeping sleep, pray, and participate in a simple bathing ritual in the heart of the temple. Very occasionally, a caravan of pilgrims will visit Sunshale, at which point the monks pause in their ceaseless guardianship, opening the gates that seal the cisterns buried deep beneath the sandstone foundation. The water that flows forth follows the shallow paths worn by generations of sweeping monks, and for an ephemeral moment the name of a forgotten God is carved in stone, only to sublimate in the desert wind a heartbeat later."
The Godslaughter / The God's Laughter,Tavern," Legend tells of a Paladin - stout and faithful - who fell under the spell of strong drink. His God (everyone says it's theirs) chastised him for his excess, and demanded penitence. Drunk on the spirit of the grape, the Paladin forsook his Deity, nailing his holy symbol to the lintel above the door in the alehouse he had taken as his own. From that day onward, the establishment was known as The Godslaughter, a profane challenge to any who would avenge the breaking of the sacred oath. The Paladin (if he ever existed) is long gone, but the holy symbol is supposedly there if you care to look for it. The other legend, told by the smiling woman at the end of the bar, is also of a Paladin. But rather than forsaking his oath, he traded his warhammer and golden raiment for a jug of ale and an apron. Not all souls are saved through glorious acts, she says, or through the business end of a sword. Some simply need a listening ear, a friendly smile, and a bout of honest laughter over a bit of mulled wine."
The Wren,Ship," Her make is hodgepodge - Eastern bow, a slim Northern line, masts and cabins hewn from dark Southern wood - with a crew just as diverse. Ne'er-do-wells? There are a few. Just as many brigands, and a rapscallion or two for good measure. But the cargo she ships is honestly obtained, the captain a niece of a family of some small fortune. If you were to ply the seas from Luskan to Baldur's Gate, you'd find a dozen like her. Still, those who book passage in her cramped guests' quarters ask for her by name on the return trip. When the actuaries see her name in insurance ledgers, they give her a favorable rate. The wind blows her way more often than not, and during a storm her canvas may tear, but it's never more than an hour's work to repair it. Some credit her namesake - Wrens are known to be a favorite of Tymora, and even in the depths of winter a mating pair nest in a snarl of rope in the forward rigging."
The Goddess Fountain,Urban Fountain," The marble Goddess Fountain sits on a raised stone square just a few blocks from the docks, and depicts the Goddess pouring water from a pitcher into a basin. The fountain is a place of peace and prayer. Upon stepping up to it, you can't help but feel restful. To speak in the presence of the holy waters feels sinful. Pious elves sing soft hymns or whisper prayers, their words blending with the gentle splash of water as it splashes into the Goddess's basin and overflows to the pool below."
Brightharbor,Elvish Town," Located on Sunset Isle, Brightharbor is the largest remaining elvish settlement in the world. The lower part of the old city is still a busy town, full of traders and crafters of many stripes, where small carracks and cogs do a deal of trade with the Western cities. The upper part of the old city is a nearly abandoned, peaceful ruin. Its beautiful stone houses overgrown with vines and flowers with a few residents tending small gardens and vineyards. Ancient Westerlings believed the gods themselves dwelt in Brightharbor."
The Grey Goat,Tavern," Near the Temple District is this lively tavern. It's a favorite haunt for monks, priests, and priestesses of the temples that allow drinking (and of the temples that do not). Lively debates of philosophy, history, politics, and mysticism can be overheard. Every new moon, the proprietor opens a cask of imported elvish wine and serves it at the regular price of two silvers per pitcher."
Baldrim's Vale,Ruined Dwarf-Hold," In a secluded mountain valley, unreachable except by one narrow mule-trail from the west and one narrow, rocky stair from the east, Baldrim's Vale was once a small, prosperous dwarf-hold ruled by Clan Greybeard for centuries. During the Fourth Hunting, the old Empire had fallen in such disarray that no warning reached Baldrim's Vale before Westron sellswords and thugs fell upon the hold, putting the town to the torch and slaughtering those attempting to flee. The raiders carried off what dwarvish treasures survived the fire. Now, the ruins of Baldrim's Vale are a site of grim pilgrimage for dwarves seeking answers to the tragedies of their people."
House of Angels,Brothel," Located down a narrow but well-lit alleyway in the Temple District is this richly-decorated house of pleasure. Catering to priests and wealthy merchants, all clients must first be bathed in the ""Holy Font"" before being robed in silk and introduced to the residents. The residents are all beautiful, young, skilled in the art of love, and well-paid. The girls are taught to read and write, to sing and dance, to play the harp, and to sew. Once a girl reaches the age of twenty-three years, she is given a bag of silver and is turned out to seek her fortune. Some of the ""Angels"" marry highborn clients or are kept as mistresses, some become priestesses within the temples of their favorite clients, and others go on to establish themselves as professionals (courtesans or other trades)."
The Shadowseer's Tent,Lowly Residence," On the outskirts of the village, an old crone with a bent back and who walks with a bent stick holds court in this flimsy structure of hide stretched over a half-dozen posts. Inside the tent, the only furnishings on the earthen floor are a straw mat, a firepit, a few claypots, a small pile of animal bones, and a large sack full of odds and ends—things she uses in her rituals to call on the dragon gods. When storms rage along the coast, the villagers mutter that the tent may blow away, but once the weather calms, it's still here and so is the occupant."
The Dome of the Sun,Enormous Temple Complex," Rising hundreds of feet about the heart of the city is the shining, golden Dome of the Sun. A team of a twelve of the sunpriest's slaves scrub and polish the gilded brick roof, so that it shines from leagues away, a beacon of flashing light that guides travelers to the city from afar changing from red to yellow to white to pink as the day burns. Beneath the dome is the largest ceremonial chamber that features a pair of east and west circular windows of golden glass, each larger than even the merchants' houses, through which sunlight shines brightly during the sunrise and sunset prayers."
Jaythan's Spring,Wilderness Grotto," A Holy-man, Jaythan traveled among the forests between villages removing curses and healing sicknesses. In a remote section of Redleaf Forest there is an outcrop of stone that had once been part of evil sacrifices. After Jaythan purged the area and struck the stone with his staff, there is now a spring gushing forth from from the spot. The spring cascades down into a pool which has a single tree growing next to it. Locals visit this pool to tie a torn off piece of their clothing to the limbs of the tree in prayers of supplication, and remove a piece of cloth a previous visitor had left to take back with them as a talisman to aid in answering of their prayer."
The Moonshine on the Path,Wayside Temple," Travellers on the path to the nearby village are always delighted when they stumble on this clearing in the woods and the temple standing there, its door adorned with a silver plate that, should the moon not be up in the sky, gives a friendly glow in the night, just enough not to stumble on the way to the dormitory, where they can get a bowl of porridge before a well-earned rest. In the morning, they will awaken to the sound of one of the regular ceremonies, maybe refill their stock of herbs for a small donation, and leave a little more at ease."
The Shrine in the woods,Artifact shrine," After a long life of endeavour, an old priest has built a small shrine in the woods for the discovery of his life, an artifact of the god of nature. Here, it fills the sorrounding trees and meadows with sparkling life, while he trains his apprentice to follow in his footsteps of pious guard - but is the boy listening?"
The shielded reliquary,Streetside shrine," While the overwhelming majority of this towns inhabitants pray to other gods, some come to this reliquary, little more than a small statue, a place to kneel and a roof above, to gather faith and maybe forget the hostile hubbub outside for a few precious moments."
Shrine of the Dragonturtle Shell,Swamp clearing," Lizardfolk have long held great reverence for the dragons of the world, unlike other races who seek dragons for power, glory, or riches. Centuries ago, the lizardfolk shaman of a local swamp tribe discovered a dying dragonturtle and thus prepared her body for the afterlife. In death, soft peat moss has grown over the the great dragonturtle shell which is circled about by mangrove trees. Today, lizardfolk bring their unborn young here to be blessed in ancient rituals and once the egg has hatched, a shaman will carve and decorate the empty egg with ornate images and sacred prayers then place it in the shrine for good fortune and a healthy life."
Bedrock Farms,Farm," A large farm in the middle of a city. Easily enough open field to house 1000 people comfortably. The owner (an old fighter), has refused and rebuked every attempt to acquire the land, and continues to comfortably grow cabbages and corn."
Shadowrim's Dawn,Hidden Grove," The climb takes hours and is always done in darkness to boot. Shadowrim looms over the valley to the west and has always darkened the deep vales, the short growing season allowed by the cold made even shorter by the meager amount of sun able to touch the earth each day. The folk of the vale worship Lathander, more in supplication than in gratefulness, I'd thought. Then Maura took me up to the grove. After waking in the middle of the bleedin' night, she urged me on up rock faces near vertical at times. Just before dawn we came to a breakaway near the top of the face. Inside was open to the sky, with a tiny grove of plants and trees surrounding a wide flat bench. I sat with her on the flat stone in among the grasses. She pointed out through the hole we'd crawled through, and as I looked, the sun rose over the pass between the Eastrun range and Gauntrym's dagger. It shone on our faces like the gods' love itself. It would be an hour before sun touched the town below, but for that time, we bathed in the glorious light."
Hallmark Road,Trading route/Main Road," Long ago the kingdom that this road lies within was nearly defeated. With naught but 1 of their cities remaining, they prayed for a miracle. And a miracle was given. Sweeping along their lands, were 7 massive ancient Wyrms, burning their foes, and a single solitary Platinum dragon soaring above the clouds, barely visible. With renewed vigor the kingdom rallyed and charged, regaining their land, and slowly over many centuries the land healed. This road stretches from the last standing city, to the final city that was reclaimed. Along the roadside is a flag for each city and town retaken, and at the end of it 7 golden flags and a platinum flag, blowing in a neverending breeze."
The Traveling Maze,Wondrous Area," A large hedge-maze. It moves with surprising speed, traveling more than 20 miles in a day. Rumor has it at the center of the maze is an ever increasing pile of treasure, however it cannot be accessed by magical means. Attempts to cast flight, dimension door, and most if not all other transportation and flight spells result in the magic being wasted. The same goes with attempts to polymorph, or beastshape into something capable of flight."
The Octagon,Inn," A very popular Inn, very out of the way. The owner is an immensely muscular half orc. 5 times a day the tavern selects their champion, and him and the owner jump into the ring in the center of the tavern. If the champion wins, the whole tavern gets a round. To this day there have been 2 victorious champions. Perhaps your big friend there can win us a round?"
The Ironwine Pit,Tavern," Somewhere hidden in the back alleys of the city you can find the Ironwine Pit, an old, rundown tavern like so many others. Old, creaking wood, an old fire place, a slightly crooked bar and an unfriendly human barkeep, all surrounded by shifty characters, scarred or hooded or both. But the actual heart of the tavern is hidden deep beneath the ground: the Blood Pit. An ancient arena of fighters long dead and champions long forgotten, fighting for glory, for gold and for faith. Originally devoted to an old goddess of strength and power, it was rediscovered by artists of the fist and blade, to be put back to its old use. All hidden from the city watch above."
The Gleaming Fort,Monastery," On the edges of civilization, between treacherous mountains and wild, dangerous forests, lies the Gleaming Fort. Built high onto a peak, its golden roofs and the gems embedded within glisten in the sunlight and glow at night. Monks of all orders live here to watch over the towns at the feet of the mountains and to protect the lands from the dangers coming from beyond the explored world."
Warden's Hill,Small Island," ""See that tiny dot in the middle of the lake? That's Warden's Hill. And let me tell you how glad I am that it is right there. You see, the borders between the planes are thin in these parts. We've had our fair share of monsters and planar storms run through here throughout the ages. If it wasn't for that tiny island and the Warden's Bell, this town, and every other town at this godsforsaken lake, would be dead as a desert. That's why we send food over every week. I heard they need fifty men and an iron-capped tree trunk just to ring the bloody thing."""
Brightlodge,Keep," Golden keep closely resembling a cathedral. The paladins reside here, and it is blessed by the gods. This keep has never been taken or overrun, and will never be, so long as the paladins keep their oaths."
House of the First Flame,Dwarven Forge," Inside, sweltering heat fills every inch of the building. A flame from the core of the elemental plane of fire is used to create masterful pieces by some of the best smiths from all of the dwarven clans. Worshipers of Moradin are known to take pilgrimages here to be surrounded by the constant clanging of hammer on metal. Edit: Formatting"
Silbergarten,Public Garden," Paid for by generous donations from a dozen of the smaller religious organizations inhabiting the city, the Silbergarten is meant to be place of quiet reflection and introspection. In center of the garden, among the silver-leaved shrubs and trees that seem to always bear ripened fruit, stands a white, well-looked after gazebo, trimmed with spiraling patterns of gold and sapphire. There are never less that five gardeners looking after the plants, all volunteers. Many flock to the annual festival of lights held by the two largest contributing religious organizations."
The Fountain of Dreams,Forest Fountain," Deep in the Canterbury Woods, lies a mythical fountain that allows for the drinker to delve into their previous lives. The fountain is protected by an elite force of faeries that tempt and test any traveler enticed by the possibility. The calm serenity of the fountain is earned."
Library of the Damned,Great Library full of Undead," A great city fell to barbarian invaders, and while the battle raged, the librarians and staff of one of the worlds best libraries barricaded themselves inside the library in a desperate attempt to prevent the barbarians from destroying the collected knowledge contained within the institution. They had a collection of some of the rarest and most amazing tomes of knowledge and lore. The barbarians noted that the library was barricaded, and decided to set about destroying the rest of the town. They saved the library for last. Using great battering rams, they finally breached the front doors, and were greeted by an army of undead instead of scared library staff. Caught off guard, the barbarians were slaughtered to the last one. The library staff knew that the barbarians would breach the library eventually, and they would be no match for the barbarian horde. So, they paid the ultimate price to protect the library, by using a dark ceremony contained within one of the special books they kept off display and locked away in their vaults, they turned themselves into undead creatures whose sole mission is to protect their precious library. So, the library still stands, it's guardians being unable to be completely destroyed until the library itself is, but the library will not fall while they stand guard, and so they will guard it until the end of time."
The Glittering Mine,Underground mine., Former mine of the Stonewreath Clan this long abandoned mine stopped being working when the Clan vanished. It is now home to several religious orders and is held to be sacred by almost all. The precious stones are so near the surface that even slight amounts of light make the walls glitter like starlight which inspires the devotion to so many gods. It is large enough to easily accommodate all of them.
Frozen Tree Temple,A massive evergreen," Located in the thick ice sheets of the worlds Poles this tree stands undaunted by the cold. Quite warm inside it is seen as sacred ground even by the beasts of the wastes. There was no hollowing out, every seeming structure inside is a natural growth. Plays host to the god of summer, nature and warmth."
Lunar Mountain,A small cave system with a hole through to the top of the mountain it lays below," This small system of caves ends in an area with a hole above it, those uninitiated in local lore assume it to be nothing special. However on one night every year, at a specific time, the moon shines through leaving a trail of light to a stone outcropping not unlike an altar. It servers as sacred land to the followers of the Moon Goddess."
The Creation Forge,Eldritch Creation hidden somewhere hidden," Long ago, the first Warforged were created here, wielding the powers of the Quori against the Giants. Constructs were imbued with life, sentience, and personality and were given the tools to assist those in need and those in the everlasting war against the Giants."
Hyperion Falls,Waterfall," The silvery-blue waters of the river tumbles over an overhanging cliff, plummeting hundreds of feet to the canyon floor. Beneath the overhang, and behind the waterfall, there is a small shrine to the spirit of the Sun. Twice a year, the position of the Sun is such that it rises perfectly in line with the waterfall, appearing to climb the water, upwards against the torrent. At the Sun's zenith on each of these days, its light shines down the cascade, illuminating the whole column of water, and focusing a beam of light onto the shrine. The intense light sets a small, fuel-less fire atop the shrine that burns until the next sunrise. What few locals there are watch the moment when the Sun reaches its zenith, but visitors feel a compulsion to leave the small flame to burn through its solemn vigil in peace."
Baths of Obscured Merriment,Bathhouse," Located in the center of the temple district, the Baths of Obscured Merriment has been the destination bathhouse for clergy and supplicants alike for as long as anyone can recall. In the early days, an enterprising young wizard took notice of the conflicting strictures of the different faiths of the city, and set about devising a set of enchantments that would protect clients from seeing anything they were not supposed to, or from revealing anything... untoward, while allowing for the socialization inherent in public baths. His work created a permanent fog around every bather, which would disperse or accumulate according to their desires, blocking varying amounts of sight and hearing. The current name of the establishment was decided immediately, and to this day holds true as folk of all faiths gather and socialize without fear of transgressing."
The Common Inn,Tavern," Welcome to the Common Inn. Everything is quite ordinary, you see, there's nothing special about us. In fact, we make a point of it. If you speak anything but Common, we'll kick you out. But don't worry - that rarely happens. Come on in!"
Aunty Agatha's Apothecary,Creepy building in the woods," There's no one here. So how did we know it was Aunty Agatha's? And what's that's scratching noise - there, hear it? No? It's like it's in my head - very strange. Oh well - I'm sure it's nothing."
Austr'alia,Land of death and Roos," Some sort of time vortex where everyone sleeps when they should be awake, and vice-versa. Full of things that want to kill. Just... kill in general."
Shimmerpeak Castle,Castle on a mountain peak," Shimmerpeak stands proud at the tallest peak of a mountain range. It is always summer when you're near the castle. Years after it has been used, it remains pristine and almost glowing. They say that the last king who ruled over it still walks its halls with his wife and kids. They say it because its true. He's very nice, you can go talk to him. Just don't mention orcs."
The Feytouched Vale,Large enchanted forest," They say that the barrier between the Feywild and the mortal plane is thin in the forest, and has given the Vale a mind of its own. The Vale is not cruel, any who wish to live and hunt within its borders is welcome to, as long as they are not greedy. You may build lone homes, but attempts to settle towns or build infrastructure are met with mysterious disappearances. The Vale protects itself, mind yourself while you're there."
Zanlamin,Dwarven stronghold," Zanlamin is a dwarven city deep within the mountain that bears the same name. Its namesake was a Goliath hero that saved the city from destruction from an army of orcs alone by defending a passageway into the city for hours, before finally collapsing the pass when he tired, killing himself and all the orcs. His axe, Earthsplitter, was recovered and now rests over the throne of the dwarven king."
Mysteries and More,Arcaneum and Trinket shop," Mysteries and More is a store run by a mysterious figure, that few have ever seen. The wonders you can find inside are unlike any others in the world. That's what the company line is. In reality, it is a store with a darkness spell cast on it, where the owner, a shrimpy elf named Taranius used magic to make his voice seem mysterious as he reveals simple items one at a time. He wears a sign on his neck that says ""If you can see me, please don't spoil the mystery"""
Kadosi Falls,Waterfall vacation destination," Kadosi Falls is a beautiful and idyllic beach and waterfall tucked away in a secluded grove. Beyond its legendary scenery, the falls are a popular vacation point because time seems to go slower while you are there. A simple vacation of a day can seem like weeks to those near it. There are whispered rumors that on rare occasions, the magic doesn't seem to work right and those who enter the grove disappear for months or years, only to suddenly reappear as if they had never left."
Sapphire Caves,Wilderness cave system," A small system of caves on the edge of some ocean cliffs. Springs well up from within, and warm, crystal clear water trickles into streams, which empty into the sea. The majority of the caves have been unexplored, though there are constant expeditions within."
House of Marble,Abandoned home in town," When Mizer Lone, the wealtheist merchant for hundreds of miles, died, his sons sealed his marble home, and hired dozens of guards to patrol the location at all hours of the day."
The Luninaria,Lighthouse," A mile off the shore of Port City (insert name here), there is a small rocky island. A dozen years ago, a few druids got together and built a weather station there to monitor sea storms, and a few years later, a lighthouse was built as well. The druids are very picky about who they allow on the the island."
Karten's Bowl,Weird wilderness location," About a mile into a large, mostly unexplored forest, there is a clearing where no vegation grows. In the center of the clearing is a smooth crater, almost a hundred feet across, and perfectly circular. All around the crater are the stone ruins of some ancient, small homes. No one lives here, and the homes don't appear to have been abandoned for any particular reason. Some rangers, led by Fraen Karten, have recently set up camp in the area, and use it as a staging ground to further explore the forest."
Sally's Spider Shop,Town shop," Sally sells spiders. Kept in glass cases and jars, Sally has almost all known spider species available. She never harms them, and she always makes sure the buyer is going to take very good care of them, and not use them for any nefarious ends."
The Honey Mill,"Brewery, bar, taproom"," Brothers Jonas and Elias Vaden founded a brewery a dozen years ago. They are known regionally for their famous Vaden Honey Ale. They have recently expanded to include a large taproom and stage, where famous entertainers visit to perform."
Garnack's Greenhouse,Orcish Herbalist, Dis my green house. Not all things green here. Not make much sense. It all pretty. And useful. Can't remember how. I try one. I get sick? I try new one. My little flowers.
Nimbuss,Monestary," If you travel high enough up the mountains, there is a place were the clouds are so dense that you can walk on them as if they were solid ground. It is here that the monks have built their home, meditating with the wind and conversing with the breeze. News travels most quickly through the wind and the monks have heard it all."
Spook Hill,Haunted Hill in a Swamp," Many years ago a gnome village was plagued by raids of a huge alligator. The Chief, a great warrior, killed the gator in a battle that created a small lake. The chief was buried on the north side in a large mound. Travelers to the area report a great sound of thrashing and yells in the middle of the night. Is this the gator seeking revenge, or the chief still trying to protect his land?"
Temple of the Lake,Neutral good temple dedicated to the Lady of the Lake," The Temple of the Lake was founded by the lady of the lake who after naming the king of the land desired to maintain a watch to ensure that he and his descendants would stay pure and honest leaders. The core ideals of healing and purity have being passed on through the order now know as the Maidens of the lake who man her temple. They are willing to heal any and all travelers who pass through no matter how nefarious as to judge them would be to make their mind impure, this means that even criminals can seek sanctuary at the temple so their wounds may heal. The temple itself is unique as the entire building is lightly flooded so that every inch of it is a pool a foot deep of pure spring water. This water never gets dirty and is perfectly clear, however someone trying to sneak though the temple will find that it slows them down and makes loud splashing noises no matter how carefully they walk."
Bronzburg,Remote village," Nestled in valley between the Copper Hills and the Green Mountains is this quaint village. The site has been occupied for centuries as the hills were mined for their rich deposits of copper, which was sent north to be forged into bronze. When the mines went dry, the valley was largely forgotten; only a handful of families remain, growing vegetables and raising sheep, but hardly enough people to fill the old buildings. Two or three times a year a few travelers come to the village with dry goods and news of the outside world."
The Village Square,Small market," An ancient oak tree dominates the grassy square at the center of the village. A handful of market stalls have been set up by farm women, selling turnips, carrots, onions, and cabbages mostly; a young boy is hawks salted mutton and sheep's cheese from a cart; and an old woman offers some crudely woven wool garments. A half dozen people gather at the far end where a peddler from outside the valley is drawing curiosities out of his enormous sack."
The Shadowwood,Ancient forest," The Shadowwood is a dark and ancient forest, framed by jagged peaks to the east and west and frozen lands to the north. There are legends that an ancient king built a town at its southern edge, hoping to use the wood to fuel his forges, bringing iron out of the mountains. But the forest fought back, swallowing the town whole. Most travelers avoid the Shadowwood: many say only the dead walk among its trees, some say that there are still elves living there who wish to be left alone, and even the bravest of hunters will only venture a short distance in."
King Cirthoeil's Keep,Woodland fortress," Carved into an enormous rock at the fork where two rivers meet, the wood elf king reigns over the forest from this fortress. Access on three sides is blocked by the rushing waters of the rivers, but vine-camouflaged draw bridges can be let down to allow escape to either bank. The only approach on land ends in a sheer rock wall, the natural formation of rock having been hewn into rough battlements, there is no gate, but ladders can be lowered from the top of the rock. Within, carved stone passages connect the chambers that make up this fully functioning fortress: the great hall, the armory, the kitchens, the residents' quarters."
Steelmoon Academy,Wizarding school," The Steelmoon Academy is located atop a low peak in the foothills of the Great Mountains. It is said to be built upon the site of an ancient monastery of shadow monks who fled the place when a dragon claimed the territory. The inhabitants of the academy are reclusive, and they are led by a mysterious wizard called Gerwac, the Knowing. Admission to the academy is by invitation only, and those who study there rarely return to their hometowns."
The Broken Road,Mountain pass," In the Age of Peace, the ancient people of the Western Kingdoms and the Southern States enjoyed a flourishing trade with the Eastern Empire, and that trade went along the Great Road that spanned the continent, snaking through a pass in the Mountains of Thunder. The ancients built several bridges and tunnels along with way-point stations to make the crossing possible, though still treacherous, for carts and wagons. When the Dragon-Emperor of the East tried to cross the mountains with his Army of 100,000 to invade the West, several wizards cast an earth-shattering spell that shook the world—breaking bridges, collapsing tunnels, and causing avalanches—, sending many of the easterners plummeting to their deaths and the rest fleeing for their lives. The place has since been known in the West as the Broken Road."
The Enchanting Antique Shoppe,Curiosity shop," Next to a seedy looking tavern on Magpie Lane is a door marked with chipped paint, ""The Enchanting Antique Shoppe, D. Obskur, Prop."" Down a flight of narrow, winding stairs is a the shop. It is little more than a musty closet with a high ceiling and wooden counter with an open door revealing a room with more shelves beyond. The flickering torchlight reveals all manner of odds and ends on the shelves: lanterns, statuettes, glass vials, glass bottles, spyglasses, unusual brass instruments, fine leather purses, richly embroidered silk pouches, and books of many shapes and sizes."
The Necromancer's Laboratory,Villain's den," As you open the door with a strange looking mummified eye twitching above it, the heady smell of perservation fluids and decaying flesh rushes out to sting your nostrils. In the room, you first notice a large table containing a corpse. Opposite the table is a desk cluttered with parchment and books. Shelves are packed haphazardly with books, notes, and glass jars holding the preserved remains of all manner of small creatures and organs."
The Buried Axe,Dwarvish alehouse," The sign above the place pictures a goblin's head with a large axe-blade buried squarely in its forehead. Inside, the light is dim. A coziness rises in the air from the close-packing of the patrons, the smell of roasted meat, and the heavy scent of drunken dwarves. The walls are decorated with pieces of weaponry, all dwarf-made, and tattered battle flags and banners. The barkeep eyes you as you enter and motions to an empty mug in his hand. ""Ale or mead?"" he calls out above the chatter and laughter and the clanging of mugs and the scraping of chairs.."
The Dog and Pony,Roadside Inn," The wooden structure is sturdy enough, but it feels very old. The soup smells delicious, and several casks of ale are ready to be served. The sign out front touted, ""The finest, most extravagant entertainments for all appetites!"" However, inside, it's just a dopey looking kid strumming a lute."
The Laughing Sheep,City Tavern," The wooden structure rises to a height of three stories. The common room is cozy and tightly packed with tables, a large spit turns a pig in the over-sized fireplace against the left wall. An oak bar stretches the length of the far wall, and to the right is a staircase that leads upstairs. Many of the city guard are crowded about the tables, drinking and eating roasted, and harassing the barmaids, all of whom are attractive, young, and plump."
The Storm King's Temple of Winter,Remote Temple Complex," Far to north, on a hill over-looking a cold, wind-swept coastal plane is an enormous temple complex dedicated to the god of storms. With lower levels are built of stone and the upper build of ice, this temple houses one of the great libraries of the world; which has grown over the centuries and never lost a manuscript to a fire. The Brothers and Sisters of the Storm that live, worship, study, and train here include powerful healers and unmatched warriors. They are tolerant of outsiders who treat the place with it's due reverence, but woe to those who would defile it or jest at the power of the Storm."
Xaranth,City," Built around the eggs of Tiamat and Bahamut, the city is concentric, with a clear plan and design to each segment."
Chichester's Tavern,Tavern," This tavern is apprarently perfectly ordinary, until after everyone has gone home, and the barkeep Chitchester pulls on the elk's antler, opening a secret door leading to his underground base, built with the riches from, and to defend against enemies made during his extensive adventuring career."
"The Lair of Kenneth the Slow, Brown Dragon",Lair," Kenneth is a pitifully weak and timid dragon, and his lair reflects this, in the fact that it is a small cave and nothing more. It has a small side-cavern in which he keeps a few bookcases filled with titles such as ""Overcoming Anxiety: Public Speaking in Simple Steps"" and ""Confidence is Key: A Beginner's Guide to Extorting Villages."" Other than this, there are no treasures."
The Ancient Altar,Altar," Disused and covered in moss, and that couldn't possibly be a pool of blood seemingly fresh upon the slab? Could it? No that would just be insane..."
The Deep Hatchet,Tavern," Got an issue bubbling up with your neighbour or associate? Don't let it fester, reconnect over a cold brew at the Deep Hatchet, never mind that most guests depart missing a large chunk of their spine, totally unrelated."
The Poorly Lit Alley,Alleyway," Got some business to attend to? Or perhaps some 'business'? Whatever your needs the poorly lit alley has been known to provide to the most esoteric of requests, but what giveth is soon taken away, weak jugulars be wary."
Trading Ghost,Trading Town," An entire town lies in the mountains, it appears very well maintained with signs from multiple races across the faces of buildings and shops. Only, there's skeletons in the lanes, behind the counters and in the shops, obviously rotted clean from years of exposure. The carts continue to set up of their own accord beside the skeleton near the well, where the bucket goes up and down in an empty well. No sign of magic is apparent, but at night ghostly shapes sleep in their clean beds over skeletons centuries old."
The Sanctuary,Free Trade City," SANCTUARY! Where anything goes! You're safe here folks, bring your wares, your people, your forbidden magics! Here in the desert no one can hear you scream about all these amazing deals!!!!!"
The Tower O' Power,Mage's Tower," It climbs into the sky, a sign posted at the front says enter at your own risk, make it past the traps to speak to the Mage. The local boys have made a game of trying to get to the top, they say the Mage will grant a wish to whoever makes it. They've only made it to the second floor though, seems like the tower fills with water and flushes em out rather regularly."
Froog's Haven,Farming Village," A simple farming village on the Southern edge of the mountains, east of the River, West of the Forest, North of the Trade routes and a few days from the local Mage's Tower. Watch out for the Town's Elder though, she can talk for hours about the crops, and the goblins, and the time a Giant came through, and the nice lad she met growing up, and the Mage who came through another time."
Bank of Moradin,Bank," Run by Dwarves, guarded by Constructs and Rune encrusted armor, rumour says that those who dare attempt to steal from it, are never seen again. And shortly after they try screams are heard from below the ground, and a green mist flows from the storm drains, and hooves are heard stomping around them."
The Spire,Magical Research Institute/Tourist Center," Welcome to the Spire. First floor: Tourist center, gift shop, food court (Try our magically-generated sausages!). Magical items can be purchased based on availability in the various market stalls. Custom requests can be submitted through the Information Desk. Second Floor and above are not open freely to the general public. Access is only granted through tours or by appointment."
Corantis,City bisected by a river," Each side of this large, sprawling city is dedicated to a different deity. To the west, most people devoutly worship Heironeous. To the east, Hextor reigns. Needless to say, things are rather tense, and the local government is having a somewhat difficult time."
Sarumat of Nchzzar,Dwarven Kingdom," Many of the dwarven kingdoms of old collapsed millennia ago, pushing many of the stonefolk into a life above ground in the Bothvar hinterlands of the north. One of the few realms to have survived this collapse is Nchzzar, a kingdom whose name means “of Polished Basalt” in the old tongue. Nchzzar is all but totally alien to the surface dwarves that have permitted to visit the underground metropole. Art, philosophy, music, theology, and even politics follow unfamiliar, rigid designs emphasizing linearity and hierarchy. At its head is Sarru Enreddu XXXIV, now in the 312th year of his reign."
The Shingles,City Slums," Officially known as the St. Beleth District, the waterfront slums of Thorenbergh have been known colloquially as the Shingles for the better part of a century. As the principle commercial port between Thorenberg and the Antarres, the Shingles have become a hub for the illicit trade of Raklak powder – a highly addictive substance containing traces of lich dust, Drow venom, and obsidian salt. Three gangsters control most criminal activity in the Shingles: Merewen, a half-elf who believes herself a true elf, heads the city’s most proficient cutpurses and padfoots; Grokk Madfinga, a giant orc who receives instructions from Grummsch via his left pinky, who runs the protection rackets; Scarlet Vera, an elderly Tiefling lady believed to be a high-ranking member in the Guild of Rats."
Turnkey Alley,Craftsman District," “Go to Logoria, and find a solid door.” – proverb of the Keepers of Silence. There are no finer doorwrights and locksmiths in the world than those found in Turnkey Alley. One might think the trade one of lesser importance, but with the abundance of thieves, assassins, and generally unpleasant folk in the world, sometimes all one wishes is to have a thick door and a sturdy lock in their threshold. Anything involving doors and their construction can be found in Logoria, including the budding ‘metaphysical doorwrights’ – mages who enchant locks, ward doors, and craft items or scrolls with embedded portal magic."
Mount Archos,Semi-Autonomous Region," A thousand shrines and monasteries dedicated to the god Pelor dot the sun-bleached face of Mount Archos. An enclave run by the Order of the Jagged Sun, Mount Archos is a holy site for many of the world’s humans, who tend towards the worship of Pelor. Officially, it is part of the Droghate of Il-Alargol, and pays a hefty church tax to its orcish overlords; despite this, the orcs tend to leave Archos to its own devices, preferring the steady stream of income to raiding along a different mountain pass. Men are generally prohibited from Mount Archos, although male pilgrims wearing a full, black veil are allowed to pray here in the company of a female companion. The monks of the Jagged Sun, all of them women or those who have given up their gender, name, and personhood to Pelor, enforce this rule strictly – visiting swift death upon those who would defy them."
The Rhadamanthian Throne,Monolithic Structure // Adjoining valley," Countless bodies in various states of decomposition encircle the Rhadamanthian Throne – a site of important ritual significance to the Thassonic people. It is a solid pillar of dark, polished jade, covered in a dizzying array of historical and religious reliefs and text, extending up nearly 100 meters. The Thassonians believe that the Throne is an extension of their death god, and that by making a pilgrimage and leaving the bodies of the dead here, their loved ones may receive a more lenient judgement of their lives. Whatever the truth of the Throne, two things are evident: the stone from which it was carved extends naturally from beneath the earth, and that it emanates intense necrotic energy. Bodies here decay far more rapidly than normally, and tend to dry out and mummify rather than dry out. Some of the richest can afford to build tombs into the surrounding valley cliffs – most simply pile the bodies at the feet of the Throne wherever there is space."
Rainbow Falls Castle,Castle atop a waterfall," Built precariously on a small, magically maintained island at the top of Rainbow Falls, the castle has stood for as long as anyone can remember. Despite being on the edge of a waterfall there has never been a case of someone falling off unintentionally."
The Lost City of Quartz,an abandoned city constructed of crystal," A city of unknown origins made entirely of high quality quartz hidden away in the mountains of Deanor. Constructed by some long forgotten race, all the proportions are slightly off: doors too tall and thin, steps slightly too deep, and buildings constructed at odd angles. If any quartz is taken from the city limits it quickly fades to ordinary rocks and regrows in the city."
Black Fall Mine,Abandoned coal mine," From out of the mouth of this mine a stream as black as pitch runs. No one knows what caused it, what is know that every time an adventuring party enters the river turns red."
The Laughing Demon,Tavern," Nothing seems out of the ordinary here, unless you find mounted demon heads fixed in perpetual smiles odd."
The Explorer's Rest,Inn and tavern," On the outskirts of the jungle where countless yuan-ti and human empires have fallen is this small wooden building. No one knows when it was built, but everyone knows of it. Any expeditions into the ruins of the jungle go through here first. For many adventurers, this is the last building they see."
El'Varoth,Eladrin city-state," One of the many city-states the high elves once ruled, this is the only one they still hold. It has no walls, yet none have ever dared to go to war with it. El'Varoth is a continent-wide center for trade, the arts, and technology. The farmlands surrounding the city have a primarily human population, and the city is one of the most diverse on the planet, yet it is ruled over by the powerful fey families, constantly jockeying for power."
The Narrows,A Town Divided," Two small farming communities make up the Narrows - though they fall under the same local government heading, they are affectionally called 'Narrows East' and 'Narrows West'. High in the foot hills, the only road to reach the Narrows leads to Narrows West; a massive dividing canyon runs between the two towns, spanned by a handful of bridges running between stone pillar 'islands'. Narrows West is a fairly idyllic farming town; everyone has plenty to eat and drink, warm shelter against the harsh winter, and are generally friendly. The apple orchards surrounding the town are bountiful year-round. Crossing the bridge, the difference is apparent; the Narrows East orchards are hard-pressed by blight and drought, and require constant tending. However, only the women and children work in the fields; the men are all pressed into the town Militia, patrolling the streets. In particular, the makeshift barricades surrounding the small glen of natural stand trees in the middle of town, which seem unnatural lively..."
Wonderbringer's Home,Monastery and Temple complex devoted to Gond," One of the less popular deities, not as explosive or sexy as some, but useful and interesting just the same, Gond the Wonderbringer has inspired the worship of many hundreds of thousands, of all races (but particularly gnomes!) over the centuries, and it is here, in this otherwise desolate valley on the Isle of Lantan, that an enormous and populous complex of worship places, workshops, storage caverns, clockwork arenas, and warforged enclaves exists, along with vast, trackless lost catacombs of wonder, and abandoned areas full of mystery and intrigue to defy exploration and classification."
The Eternal Forest,"An ancient, dark forest"," A slowly expanding forest, that can never be destroyed. Trees can be cut down, but new ones appear in their place moments later. A great source of lumber, but not a nice place to be a lumberjack. Some say the trees are alive, others blame it on spiders that live deep in the forest. Whatever it is, no one stays in the forest very long, for fear of their life."
Maegor,The City of the Living Dead," A black sun shines darkly in the soot-like skies above the city of the living dead. Inside the sharp, obsidian-lined walls a race of black-eyed beings conduct their business alongside undead servitors of various sizes and stripes. They, too, walk the fine line between life and death. The black sun radiates negative energy down onto the city empowering the undead and, according to some of the more aged carcasses, the dark light keeps the Crawling Cancer from breaking loose and infecting the rest of the daylight world."
Arbold,"Small city, heavy trading route"," Arbold, near the river of Dase, is either a big town or a small city, depending on who you ask. The University of Arcane Arts has a small campus here due to the proximity to a trade route, where they buy (and sometimes, sell) magic artifacts and exotic ingredients. However, the old Governor is known to be an specieist, and non-humans are harassed by some of the Guards. The citizens usually disagree with his beliefs, but don't expect them to help you."
Delego city,A city up in the north," This city is run by druids, who were so desperate for money, turned to casinos. After the massive success they turned it into a full time business. As a result they have become corrupt, and somehow still maintain their druid powers."
Silver Mesa,A city on a mesa top," The best collection of inventors the world has ever seen, 132 years ago was the first convention of Silver Mesa. Every year since the convention has grown larger, to the point that it is now a city."
GOMA Cleavehide,A ruined castle by the swamp undergoing renovations," The ruins of Alsgoroth, once a proud city, now a pile of rubble filled to the brim with undead. However after an assault from a group of adventurers they now claim it to be their home. They don't tell anyone this, but GOMA stands for Group Of Misfit Adventurers."
Junk Palace,A pile of junk that is 3 miles wide," Once the Efreeti told everyone where they could throw their junk, they turned a barren wasteland into a thriving business. Pay to get in and grab as much junk as you can carry from dawn to dusk. If you are not out by the time the gate closes, woe be unto you."
The floating ruins,"An island that floats across the sky, and is difficult to find"," The ancient city of the gods, floats aimlessly across the clouds. It is said that there is a tree there, that once planted grows solid gold."
Shevorth Mansion,A lavish mansion on the edge of the mountains," The inhabitant, a desert elf from the east, is very rich and is interested in the collection of dragon parts. He has furniture covered in the scales of exotic dragons. He is looking to finish his collection of dragons teeth."
Pelor's Church,"A church for the people, on the edge of town"," Run by the prophet Zenith, the people love him. He has preached how they will come out of the hard times, and asks for lots of tithing to achieve his gods will."
Misfits inn,Tavern," Any and all are welcome here! You won't even feel out of place because our employees are probably weirder than you! We have our lovely lady dwarf who would love to spit in your food, but can't even see that high. We also have our beloved half-orc Harry, who is striving to be the best barmaid this side of town."
Rizgardi Library,A sunken library in the desert, Sometimes the sands shift enough to show you the top of this ancient library from the Rizgardian era. There are certainly ancient texts here that could answer a lot of your questions.
Steelbeard's Clockwork Tower,"Wizard Tower, used to be clocktower"," Ever since the Steelbeard, great and powerful wizard known for his literature, moved into the city, he stayed in his tower studying, but nobody knows what exactly is he studying."
The Shattermap Expanse,Magically Afflicted Geography," A large forested region centered around the capital of an ancient and forgotten world power, whose sudden destruction was enough to shatter both time and space both in the city and throughout the surrounding area. The geography in this region is constantly shifting through space, and often through time. These shifts generally occur imperceptibly, but they become more frequent and more obvious the closer you are to the center, where time has frozen completely around the moment of the cities destruction. Those who enter the city can move perhaps needing protection, but everything around them is frozen and colorless. Armies fill the streets, citizens fleeing and dying. In the castle may lie the source of the disruption, or something worse that spawned from it... All of this is unknown to the modern country who claims the surrounding area. For them, the Shattermap is simply a large and inconvenient mystery, one filled with strange solitary fae and small groups of outcasts and fugitives not worth chasing after. A large road through the forest is maintained using large magical anchor-stones, which absorb and trap magic surges and any fae aggressive enough to try to step onto the road. These stones are discharged (and the emerging fae dispatched) frequently at great risk and expense. Every year the king tries to discontinue this costly maintenance, but the road is used by several powerful merchant families. And so it remains, despite the occasional anchor failure and the accompanying caravans lost into the maw of the forest."
Dryllis' Branch,Giant tree," A gigantic tree that holds a large meeting hall at ground level. Somehow this meeting hall is no detriment to the tree's health, and everything indicates that it's grown this way naturally. The table in the middle and the chairs seem to be grown by the tree as well. Used by the wood elves for important meetings. Small dwellings for the sages and elders can be found higher up the tree."
Sam's Sailing Shelter,A sailing tavern," A ship that does not comply with the standard of trade or military use, this large sailing ship is more like a cruise ship. The owner, Sam, sails from location to location and transports passengers for a small fee. It can easily hold a hundred passengers and still have room left for personnel, supplies and entertainment. On-board facilities include a brothel, showers, gambling hall, training room and arena, restaurant and much, much more! The restaurant usually serves some kind of fish."
Cutthroat's Slum,Town district that isn't what it seems," This part of town is rumored to be filled with beggars, murderers and other scum. A first look around when entering this district might confirm that belief, but if you stay for a bit longer and earn the trust of the locals you'll eventually get to the truth. The people living here are actually part of an underground resistance against the local tyrant. Underneath the layers of filth and gruffness one can find friendliness and assistance. This part of town is also home to the black market."
Cydonia's Warehouse,A temple in an abandoned warehouse," While this may look like a normal warehouse near the docks, it holds a temple to Cydonia. The priests and believers follow her teachings; to steal from the rich and give to the poor. Their sneakily-obtained loot is stored in this warehouse and divided amongst the people later when the time is right. The stolen money is also used to fund food and drink for their members. It has no special features other than blending in with the nearby warehouses and a hidden connection with the sewers."
The Bastard's Barrell,Tavern/Brothel combination," This bar is full of the scum of the Earth and piss water ale. All the same, you'll be hard pressed to find a place to sit because the drink is cheap and the girls are just good enough keep the masses coming back."
The Jagged Saw,Mountain Range," Deep mountains rise to a razor spike amongst the clouds. The traveled path curves amongst ravines. Caves dot the mountain side, though most remain empty. A few are inhabited by goblin/orc war parties from the nearby region. Giant Spiders also lurk in the darkness of the ravines. Though the path is dangerous, it's the shortest route between two large towns, so many caravans take the risk of the journey then spending days going around."
Unification City,Capital city," Unification City is the centerpoint of the human-elf-dwarf alliance, and is the largest city in the continent. It is dotted by massive skyscrapers left by a long-dead race, and surrounded and lined with a train system that quickly and efficiently transports citizens to their destination. The city, as well as the alliance, is ruled by a theocratic council of three humans, three dwarves, and three elves."
Web Monument,Monument trap," What appears to be a monument built by an ancient civilization is actually a trap set by a particularly intelligent spider. The monument, which appears roughly similar to Stonehenge, is held together by nearly-invisible web and used to lure the curious to their demise."
The Queen Boiler,Steamboat, The Queen Boiler is a steamboat that ferries wealthy passengers up and down dangerous rivers. The captain is known for placing the lives of his passengers before his own.
Ridgecrest Barrow,Kobold nest, This former burial ground was turned into a kobold nest when the Dragon Queen Lady Guura decided that it would make an opportune location for commerce. The barrow's original gloom is covered by the kobold's obsession with shinies. The kobolds of Ridgecrest Barrow are peaceful but tricky. It is rare that a traveler enters without leaving with lighter pockets.
Marrath,Anarchic Abandoned City," Marrath is the kind of place you go when you need to dump the bodies, and for very few other reasons. Built into the bottom of a large crater and long since deserted by the Dwarves when the seemingly rich silver veins beneath the city dried up, it now plays host to everything under the sun. Wary humans mix with cutthroat goblins, territorial Orcs and a few dangerous races from the Underdark. The city's main attraction is that it is an almost direct route down to the depths below, where rare creatures, forgotten secrets and valuable treasures await the daring."
The Dark Side Of The Moon,The Ronsil of locations," More than just the other half of a celestial body, since it became host to Lu'Nahan the Shadow of the Stars this has become a realm where the shadows of nothing roam. A Shadow of Nothing is a thought without purpose, an idle daydream given flesh by Lu'Nahan. Plucked from the mind of one who suspects nothing of his influence and shaped for their ineffable purposes. On the Dark Side of the Moon these shadows are most plentiful, where their Lord of Cold resides. Though it seems to desire the heat and light of the world the sunlight will burn them and so he lurks in this dark place, waiting for the day he will descend."
Justice,Arena," Beneath Grimehold Prison is Justice: a room fifteen feet wide, twenty feet long, and only six feet high. Its walls are earthen, its floors the same but beaten solid by countless footfalls. The low ceiling is made of wooden beams. Three trap doors are built into the ceiling: one at each end, and one in the center. Combatants are dropped into the room and made to fight to the death. The winner is freed and the loser is cremated."
Jama's Solar,Private Chamber," Jama's solar is the highest chamber in Jama's tower. It is private. No one but Jama has entered it since the monks took possession of the castle. The square 15'x15' room features a trap door, a north-facing window, a leaky roof, and a hearth. It is adorned with a small bookcase, a long wooden table covered in maps, an altar, and a dilapidated chair, as well as a few barrels of brewing mead."
The Ginger Cat,Brewery," A halfling run brewery. Focus mostly on wit beers. All are welcome in their tasting room, but entrance to the brewing parlour is By Invitation Only. The establishment is frequented by a large ginger cat who has a knack for predicting trouble."
Farmur Lobstones' Potatoe Farm and Apothakrey,Farm," Hob and Lobelia Lobstones are kindly folks, though no one seems to be able to tell if they are gnomes or halflings (some have even ""joked"" that they ""might be goblins"", which is surely laughable, yes?). Their potato yield is tremendous every year, with many potatoes growing to the size of melons. Aside from potatoes, customers can purchase here a number of potato-based elixers and remedies including ""eye-stane"" and ""spud-dato"" and ""tuber-draught."" It's unclear what any of these elixers do."
The Mushroom Hole,Hole, It's basically just a hole full of mushrooms.
Sad-Crow's Nest,-," The Sad Crow is out, but for how long? The nest is neat; twigs and sticks and branches and trunks arranged in an impossible, impeccable vortex. In the middle are lackluster feathers. Broken eggshells, sticky with dried darkness: caustic, pungent. The crying has started, so it's time to leave."
Oakheart Thicket,Dryad grove in the middle of a city," This grove consists of a great oak home to a very old and powerful dryad, surrounded by smaller oak trees with lesser dryads in them. The grove forms the heart of the elf/human city of Oakheart, who quite literally is built around the grove to protect it. The old dryad is calm and benevolent, and her and her dryads often take an active role in governing the city."
Mo'goro Stronghold,Orc Stronghold," A large palisade and several watchtowers surround a large stone fortress, all located on a cliff, with the banner of One-Eye waving from the top. Several rotting elf heads are placed on spears inside the fortress, where orc warriors relentlessly spar against one another. Two ogres are kept in chains, but look rather well-fed and content with their existence."
Tabith,Inconspicuous human town," Housing 400 halflings, humans, elves and others, this town has a well-known inn and a bustling economy, trading often with larger cities near it. On the last full moon of spring and the first of autumn however, the Tabithians celebrate the coming and passing of summer in a big way. Everyone gets drunk on magical ale created by the town innkeeper, a druid, causing them to partially shift to animal form. A bunch of satyr are summoned to strike up the band, and the party continues in hedonistic fashion for an entire week. Quite a few babies are conceived during these feasts."
Uglstrup,Frost giant town," This rather large town, the largest in the area, is filled with huge wooden houses with thatched rooves, and lies near the coast. The frost giants who live here rely on fishing, hunting and farming (during the summer) to keep themselves alive, but often go hungry, bored, or both due to the harsh living conditions, at which time the Jarl of Uglstrup sets out on his longships to raid the ""weaker races"" who live in the lands to the immediate south."
Apothecary Mountain,City and Landmark," When the gnomes settled this towering mountain, they discovered the ""screaming spirits"" within the first week. Undeterred by the superstitions of other races, they determined that the ""spirits"" were actually large pockets of natural gasses that were trapped under the mountain. By the second week, they had determined that the gas escaping the natural vents in the mountain was flammable. By the third week, they had set up shop. Turns out, the gas provided a near infinite supply of natural heat, the mountain provided shelter, and the industry of the gnomes provided the clean conditions necessary to harvest and utilize the alchemical ingredients of the surrounding jungle. Thus, the City of Alchemy was born, and it's production inspired the vast trade networks across the southern jungles. The gasses are directed and used to heat massive vats and boiling chambers filled with various bubbling substances both magical and mundane. The entire city is kept well protected, and outsiders rarely see inside. This has led to the propagation of many mysterious rumors about the mixtures and experiments happening inside the mountain, both malicious and benign."
The Salted Pork,Tavern/Inn," Often here you can find Halfings drinking and smoking. They've just come from a grand adventure and are enjoying some well deserved leisure time. For a pint they are sure to share their story. However, they always seem to finish their drink on a cliff hanger, until another ale is brought."
The Bristled Grisly Brewery,Brewery," A large bear of a man with a 3 foot brown beard and a prickly demeanor owns and operates the brewery. No one knows more about wheat, grain, barely, hops or ale than he does. If you insult him he will challenge you to a taste testing. He gives out quests to find rare ingredients to those he likes(or more accurately, tolerates)."
Nuna's Garden,Shrine of Glass," In the quiet town of Leaflorn there stands a garden shrine for the folk hero ""Nuna""; a recently passed alchemist that aided the townspeople with cures and poultices. Within this small garden beautiful flowers grow and a great tree has stood for years. The people of Leaflorn seem unconcerned that the bark of this oak is almost entirely transparent. The people also seem unconcerned that they themselves are beginning to fade."
Tower of laughing Hob,Tower," Abandoned tower in the derelict portions of town. Locked by the rulers of the city for being ""unsafe"", many a tale is still told amongst the beggar children that if you place your ear up against the door, you can hear the faint sound of giggling children. If the party manages to enter the tower, they discover the interior is decorated all around by stone gargoyles that spout water from their mouths. The sounds of the water hitting the pool at the bottom of the tower echo around the tower causing a distorted sound reminiscent of a giggle. The adventurers must be careful ascending, as the stone stairs are very old and will give way under heavy stress."
Laugathon's Litterfree Library,"Library, currently in use OR abandoned"," Wow, this library is INCREDIBLY organized. I mean really- the rest of the mansion is in shambles, and clearly hasn't been visited for years. Come to think of it, there aren't even any bugs in here... (Anything that falls to the floor is instantly put back on its shelf in its rightful place; trash that falls to the floor vanishes. Anything that needs to be studied must be placed on one of the rune-inscribed tables, otherwise it's put back immediately. This could range from an in-use library with some flavor to an abandoned library in an ancient manor, where anything that touches the floor simply vanishes...)"
The Struggling Juggler,Tavern," A small but busy tavern near the heart of the city. It's a little overpriced, but the owner is more than willing to make sponsorship deals with adventurers in exchange for a discount."
Old Stefan's Shack,Farmhouse," A ratty little shack on the outskirts of town. It changes hands every couple years or so; the current owner is Old Stefan, who didn't have anywhere else to go after his wife kicked him out. People say it's cursed, but that's crazy talk. It just happens to be on the edge of a werewolf-infested forest."
Trisha's Tarts,Pastry Shop, People come from all around to taste the wonderful things baking in Trisha's kitchen. The smells wafting from within are absolutely delicious! It is strange that the building is in the middle of a cemetery...

Book Title,Author,Information

The Arcane Act of Spell Weaving and its Profane works in the History of our Great Empire,"Written by Illidan Windwalker, half-elf sorceror and Professor of Magic History at the University of Vinlheim"," Here's one to get us all started: This book was penned by Illidan during his second decade as a Professor of Magic History at the University of Vinlheim. The book has since been published in many copies and can be found in most libraries and book shops. The original still remains in the office of Professor Windwalker, who is working to update it and publish a revised second edition. In the pages of the book, readers may find the foundation of spellcraft, spells and runes lost to History that Illidan recovered, and historical information as to how specific spells have been used in the Empire."
Grandma's Recipies,Written by Saffron Grasskeeper," Ooo i like this. A lengthy book about ghosts, spirits and the afterlife. Details many rituals describing resurrection and the maintenance of soul keeping. It's a fairly populair book amongst Necromancers, although not many of the books exist. This book contain an intricade study of demonoly, both the description of many demons along with their method of summoning. There are stories going around about one page being hidden inside the book, which contain the ritual to summon Arianna herself. Probably just rumors. As the title would suggest, this book is all about surviving in the wild. Which herbs to eat, what mushroom to pluck, and what you can do to help people turned to stone by basilisks. Has a handy cheat sheet where you can look up if the stuff you just ate is going to kill you or not. A rare book about the alchemy of poisons, and a study of poison in the wild. In the back there is a short section about his personal life, and how he endured the many stings and bites he has received. A book describing the strange ongoings in an even stranger tribe. They worship the sun. Are often found raising their arms in the middle of work and shouting 'PRAISE' while staring into the sun. Many of them have gone blind. This book contains an immense amount of knowledge about minerals, gems and crystals. It describes how to properly identify them based on geometry and size, and sometimes taste. usually comes with a small sample embedded into the cover, but cheaper versions simply have a colored piece of paper to replace this. The details of the author remain unknown, and not many copies of this book exist. It describes the act of taming wild animals, and which animals are actually safe to tame. Rumors speak of imbued properties in this book, that whoever reads them will be able to speak to animals. Sloppily written and difficult to understand, this book attempts to teach the reader the basics of Infernal. The useability of this book is long disputed, with many saying it is worth less then the paper it was written on, while others speak religiously of it's content. Many often blame this on the idea that Asmodeus was in fact a devil himself. William was ordered by his king to handle negotiations between the kingdom and an orc clan. The book details his experiences in setting up a peaceful agreement between both parties. Not long after finishing this book, war broke out between the two and this book was near-instantly discarded. Most dwarfs often consider this the finest in romantic novels made. Other races tend to disagree, the descriptions are very vivid and detailed. Not recommended for the younger public. This book tells of the requirements to become a true wizard; from wands to spellbooks to the iconic pointy hat. Also details possible complications that may arise from being a wizard - like sudden incineration or death by giant monster. As age takes most of us, the need to write down important details becomes imperative. It is to this end, that Saffron wrote a large collection of medicinal salves and healing artifacts for her grandma. In the end the book was cut short due to her grandma dying from a fatal sword to the chest, but this book is still considered prized for it's healing recipies."
Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vols. I - VII,"Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," Arthur Serrowen served as High Sage of the College of Elemental Magic for nearly 100 years. Though not a magic-user himself, he held a lifelong fascination with fire magic. By the time of his death, he was considered one of the foremost experts on fire and flame based enchantments and magical creatures. A frequent collaborator in the development of new fire-based spells with wizards of his time, his ""Dissertations"" still provide insights to the modern practitioner. More details on the contents of the individuals texts can be found below."
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vol. I: Wards, Shields, and Protections","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies", Volume I of the series consists of a detailed explication of all manner of protective magics that involve fire. The pages detail both protections against fire magic as well as those that employ fire in their effect. The author opines that any dedicated student would be wise to master wards against fire before including any offensive tools in their arsenal. Readers of the text often report that their defensive capabilities against fire are improved after careful study of the text.
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vol. II: Sprays, Rays, and Blasts","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," Volume II of the series describes a wide array of magical formulae for using fire as an offensive tool. The applications are broadly theoretically and have been praised for their ability to be understood across a wide variety of magical disciplines. The general principles laid out in the text provide an excellent template for the development of new offensive magic. Although a wonderful primer for others, Serrowen's lack of personal combat experience can sometimes be evident. His proposal for a ""sun burst"" spell, requiring a minimum of one hour of concentration to cast, was especially panned by contemporary critics."
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vol. III: Natural Fire Creatures, Their Habits and Uses","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," Serrowen provides a comprehensive overview of all known natural creatures that use, consume, or otherwise live alongside fire as part of their regular existence. A generous grant from a group of druids interested in cataloguing and protecting these creatures enabled the sage to hire an elite group of rangers to explore and document animals across the known world. Praised as one of the finest texts of its kind, it still provides invaluable information about the creatures within its pages."
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vol. IV: Supernatural Fire Creatures, The Magical and Elemental","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," Against the advice and better judgement of his peers, Serrowen went to great pains to contact an efreet noble from the City of Brass. Extensive transcription of his interviews with that noble were transformed into the contents of the fourth and fifth volumes. It is largely unknown what Serrowen used to bargain with (or perhaps even compel) the noble to share the information in the text. Many more learned scholars have chosen to disregard both volumes for fear that they might contain incomplete, or even misleading, information. It is unknown whether those fears have any real foundation, as no one has undertaken any comprehensive fact-checking of the work."
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vol. V: The Elemental Plane of Fire, Its Geography and Environs","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," Although tainted by the questionable interviews that plagued his fourth volume, Serrowen's geography of the plane of fire enjoys a slightly better reputation. His insistence on hiring a well respected court painter to record scrying of various features of the plane provide a vivid and colorful impression. Although the specifics of his descriptions are sometimes disputed, conensus tends to suggest that the text and accompanying images are a reasonably accurate presentation of the plane."
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vol. VI: ""Gods"" of Fire and their Servants","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," An unfortunate low point in an otherwise excellent collection. Serrowen was vehemently opposed to any worship of gods claiming dominion over fire. The first few chapters provide a cursory overview of deities with a portfolio that includes fire. He then proceeds to spend much of the remainder of the text elucidating several arguments as to the ""true"" nature of fire and its independence from any divine control. It is unknown why Serrowen argued so passionately against fire gods in this text. Several late contemporaries have suggested that he may not have been the actual author. In a nod to prudence, later editions of the text omit the quotation marks in the title."
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Vol. VII: Fire, Life, and Magic","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," Believed by many to be Serrowen's magnum opus, this work combines the best of the High Sage's understanding of the nature of magical fire with his broad theoretical knowledge of magic itself. In its pages, the author draws parallels between natural fire, magical fire, animating life forces, and the core of magic itself. A dense and difficult text, it nevertheless represents some of the finest scholarship from a lifetime of study in the field. Few claim to have read the volume from cover to cover, but those who have are invariably among the most powerful practitioners of fire magic."
"Serrowen's Dissertations on Elemental Fire Magic Appendix: Enchantments, Instruments, and Artifacts","Arthur Mendalon Serrowen, half-elven High Sage of the Magical Arts, College of Elemental Magic, Nevereth Royal University of Magical Studies"," Only included as an appendix to later editions, Serrowen's index of magical items involving fire was tragically incomplete at the time of his death. The text was clearly designed to consist of three sections. The first is a review of common and uncommon magical items using fire. The second is a discussion of a few of the better known magical artifacts using fire. The third is a theoretical treatise on magical frameworks for constructing these items. Rumors suggest that one of Serrowen's students may have stolen a more complete version of the final text just prior to his death."
The Joy of Sects,"Dragar Darkstone, human warlock and high priest of the Old Ones"," Through his daily four hour meditations, Brownleaf discovered the secret to staying cool under pressure, whether it's collecting tuition fees from his students or having his adventuring companion being squeezed in a giant's fist. Brownleaf teaches you how to apply these lessons in your own life, from the battlefield to the boardroom. Found in most ancient temples. Legendary warlock Dargar Darkstone recounts his time in a Cult of the Old Ones, and how it gave the parentless human some much-needed direction, as well as lifelong friendships. A heartwarming tale found in all good bookstores."
Catchy Harmonics as Spell Mnemonics,"Rimnjim Gnollbane, halfling bard, made famous by Catchy Harmonics as Spell Mnemonics"," A thick book of sheet music. Each song has accompanying lyrics and details on how those lyrics translate into mnemonics for remembering spellcrafting methods. Unfortunately, the songs and mnemonics are quite long and rarely does a spellcaster find it less tedious to remember the song. A few songs do stick in ones head and some readers have gleaned a new spell from its pages. Mostly, it's a common birthday present for any grandchild whose going to grow up to be ""grandma's favourite wizard""."
Interplanar Vortices and Their Interactions with Magical Forces: a Thesis in Three Parts,"By Alerio Findelkir, human student at Ulcaster's School of Wizardry"," Alerio Findelkir was a student at Ulcaster School for many decades before it was destroyed by Calishite mages. His book, ""Interplanar Vortices and Their Interactions with Magical Forces: a Thesis in Three Parts,"" was originally intended to be a simple thesis on how portals to other planes can affect the flow of magic in the surrounding area. However, after spending so long researching the subject, Alerio became obsessed with detailing the minutiae of the magical energies, and the project slowly became his life's work. This book's three parts are as follows: A small section describing the creation of these portals, a larger section on why they cause minor disturbances in nearby magic, and a long, convoluted dissertation on the minor shifts in magical energy caused by the merging of planes. While most of the text is nigh indecipherable to all but the most specialized of scholars, this work has been spread to many major libraries across Faerûn and is sought after by mages who need extremely accurate information on how arcane abilities can be affected by the intersection of different planes."
The Vokhoriad,Anonymous," An epic dwarven poem that originated in oral tradition, passed down through the centuries until it was finally transcribed by a runesmith named Storvi Stonequill. It tells in ponderous, long-winded verse the story of the dwarven citadel Vokhor, which was destroyed by elves near the end of the creation wars. It is a tragic and haunting tale of brave dwarf soldiers led to ruin by a weak king's folly."
Adventurers in the Wild: A Practical Survival Guide for Commoners,"By Clement Bosunsmate, tavern owner from Waterdeep and seventeen time unwilling hostage."," This is a book of practical tips for avoiding contact with adventuring parties. From the best techniques for diving into a bale of hay, to making your house or shop look less interesting, this guide aims to aid common folk in the inevitable event they find themselves in proximity to one of the many dangerous companies of adventurers. Of particular note is a section dealing with identifying and disposing of arcane artifacts and how to locate a village least likely to be the site of demonic horrors."
"On the Minutiae of Romantic and Erotic Emotions: A Study in the Historial and Contemporary Differences in Courtship Tactics of the Academically Inclined, the Sociopolitical Elite and the Illiterate","Harliban Silverbottocks, gnome genealogist at The Grand Athenaeum Historica"," An ambitious compendium over courtship, romance, companionships and procreation, of a frankly somewhat disconcerting scope. It includes historical records, mythological innuendos, interview transcripts, peer-reviewed user testings and more, compounding and analyzing all data within and between the different races, cultures and social ranks of the known world. In the 30 pages long foreword, the author reminds any potential interested parties that he welcomes any and all discourse, by letter or appointment. Tied together with the book is its companion book, which further explores the topic of securing potential aid from a third party, such as demonic pacts, a mind-bending Old One or a ""Winged Man"". It also includes the leaflet ""Survival Guide to Succubi"" used as a bookmark."
Hot Tub Succubi Vols. I - IV,"Gweyndil Forrestrider, elven adventurer, skald, and playwright"," This four part set of novelas is written more for the lurid imaginations of the common folk who wish to indulge in a bit of extra-planar fantasy. Depended on the area, it is easily discovered under young men's beds or at a local printer's shop. Though considered trash by most scholars and writers, it has been pointed out that many of the 'facts' about succubi and their habits are rather correct."
Forgeries and Fanaticism: Never Waste a Crisis of Faith,"Perwid Crashdawn, High Priest"," A short and cynical treatise on using trying times to turn the common people to one's will. The subjects are divided down into though, action, and outcome, sometimes summarized with bullet points. The writer is long dead, having been victim to a coup d'etat organized along the book's lines. Existing copies are often found as a hand-copied sheaf of notes on the table of a would-be dictator, but libraries which specialize in social studies or collecting as many writings as possible are certain to have at least one copy."
The diversity of language: Common dialects and their interplay with other languages,"Cillain Roderim Du'Hallae, High Elf, Senior Professor of Linguistics. Epthwitch Royal University"," Penned by Du'Hallae in his 250th year, this is a hefty leather bound and rather plain looking tome. Du'Hallae is a world renowned linguist, being fluent in over 20 languages, and conversational in many more. This book contains basic information on almost every language known to Du'Hallae but it's main focus is Common. Du'Hallae covers the many dialects of the common tongue, how they came into being and their relationship with other languages in their region of development. Including loan words, language change over time and mutual intelligibility. While a horribly dry read, working their way through this tome may assist readers in grasping a finer command of languages. As well as gaining some pointers in deciphering texts of unknown languages."
The Infinite Joy of Husbandry,"Allen ""The Man of Tools"" Taylor, Human, Woodsman and Handyman"," Written in (Small Village of your world). It can be found in many libraries as it is among the most common for general handyman work, such as crafting and repairing wagons, chairs, furniture, sewing seeds and farming, how to build a basic irrigation system, things of that nature. Allen Taylor was thought to have been a man who created or invented many of the systems and methods used in common day workings, though whether or not these statements are true, he ""swears on me mum"" it's true."
The Wonderfully Implausible Arcanum of Perplexing Conundrums,(Or another arcane sanctum of thought and magic in your world)," Herein lies the most confusing conundrums and perplexing pieces of odd and mismatched information from here to the nine hells. Those who wish to gain a greater understanding of all things that cannot be understood, need not look elsewhere for this is the book (since they're already found it). From confusing scripture scrawled on old moisture sodden tablets, unusual and cryptic runes from a forgotten age, or to the location of that other sock that you swore you washed last night, but when you went to put on your fresh socks this morning it was gone. There is nothing to obtuse or convoluted too study. Spending at least 40 hours over the next 7 days reading this, you may or may not understand the world better and might perhaps become smarter."
"Rock, paper, goblin: 50 educational games and songs for children","Vincent of Erdis, scholar at the Temple of Light"," A collection of games and songs for children that teach them about the dangers of the outside world and why they should fear it. It contains such classics as ""Rock, paper, goblin"", ""Tick, tac, terrasque"", ""Little red riding hood and the big bad warg"" as well as 30 completely original games and songs."
The Evolution of Heraldry through the Later Years of the Ildan Empire,"""in case the reader wants to conduct her own corroborating research"""," Written in an exceedingly dry style, this massive tome describes everything known about the heraldry of the elven Ildan Empire, from the death of the Bright King Uldaril to the destruction of the empire during The Reckoning. The tome is a veritable gold mine for anyone interested in the Ildan Empire, but even among professional sages, few are willing to dig through the pages upon pages of the dry heraldic research to dig out the gold nuggets of information within."
Roland the Magnificent's Comprehensive Guide to Wizardly Etiquette,"Roland the Magnificent, Human, Professor of Magical Etiquette", This book contains a detailed guide on all things relating to Wizard Etiquette. Used as a textbook for Introductory Magical Studies classes at Colleges of Magic across the globe. This book provides students with a comprehensive understanding of the nuances of the wizarding world. A sample of chapters included: Wand using techniques Choosing a familiar so as not to offend Greeting older and more distinguished wizards The proper use and ordering of titles The meaning of robe colors and when to wear them Proper beard growing and grooming techniques Arriving precisely when you mean too
Summoning Familiars: How to ensure the inter-dimensional appearance of your companion won't create ripples through time and space,Mureand Fulloveet, This book contains a lengthy discussion on the effects on time and space of summoning a familiar.
"A Treatise on the Uses of Elemental Fire, its Evocations, and Conjurations; A Field Guide for Practical Applications","Written by Aramil ""Cinderhawk"" Näilo, Elder Wizard of Evocation at The Spires: Arcane University of the Kingdom of Eredan"," Penned by a retired adventurer-turned-academic, this book discusses many common uses of elemental fire. While perhaps not as thorough, nor as heavily researched and theoretical, this tome stands as a strong resource for the adventuring wizard. The Treatise is broken into four parts: An introduction that discusses basic magical theory of evocation and conjuration. A discussion of the uses and applications of Elemental Fire in Evocation. Guidance on safety precautions and proper techniques of Conjuration involving Elemental Fire. A collection of common spells for the study of Elemental Fire, and application of the ideas disussed in the first three parts."
"Everything You Never Really Wanted To Know About Draconic Reproduction, But Are Going To Learn Anyway By Reading This Book","Migulio Candlechin, gnomish wanderer-bard, First and only Graduate of the College of Suraz"," Despite the rakish title, it's a scholarly work dealing with the ecology of dragons; where they like to nest, their mating habits, how to best ensure the eggs hatch, etcetera. One chapter does describe ""the acts"", in even more detached clinical detail than the rest of the tome, albeit with little vomiting faces drawn in the margins."
Where the Gold Flows Freely,"Airedhel Orson, human economist"," A book about taxation and trade, examining the various economic models of cities on the Sword Coast. It's a dry read even if you're interested in economics. For the unschooled, it's best used as a doorstop."
Habits of the Wild Things,"Lephidiles Escthony, Half-Elf Chair of Improbable Zoology, College of Nulbanal"," The book is a chronicle of beast lore, focusing on rare and poorly-understood animals. Most of the information is second-hand at best and contains wild and unsubstantiated claims about wild fauna of faraway lands."
Potent Poems and Skyclad Songs,"Argrama Hazescar, Halfling Bard of Baldur's Gate"," A book that was initially banned in Baldur's Gate for its explicit nature and ribald social commentary. After being banned, it went through three extra printings before being hurriedly un-banned by the Council of Four. Rumor has it that Duke Eltan's wife pressured him into relenting. Nevertheless, Hazescar has not returned to the city in some time, perhaps fearing some sort of social consequences."
It Works Better If You Drink It,"Adanessa Venmeri, Elven alchemist of Marsember"," The book is a primer on basic alchemy - how to distinguish safe ingredients from dangerous, how to make healing potions and other useful concoctions. There's a special appendix in the back of the book that is encoded. For an extra 10 gold, you can send away for the means of decoding it. The appendix is a set of recipes for poisons."
Our Friends Below: The Art of Demon-Summoning,"Tousba Autumnridge, senior Demonologist-in-good-standing, Faerûn Commission of Outreach and Tourism"," The book is, upon first opening it, blank. This has, not surprisingly, affected its sales. However, pages can be revealed through a series of rituals and bargains. The first page, usually activated through a paper cut, will reveal how to access other portions of the book. By the time you get to the end, your soul will almost certainly be the property of several malevolent entities, but the payoff is, we are assured, worth it."
Naughty Nights in Nulbanal,Nuwulf Ry and others," This collection of ribald and satirical plays has become wildly popular in recent years. Most of the works are by well-known Halfling playwright Nuwulf Ry and tend to lampoon the upper classes and leaders of cities and towns up and down the Sword Coast. Needless to say, there have been official pushes to ban this compendium, which inevitably increases its renown."
All That Glitters,Haley Pridedraft," This is a standalone volume that means to introduce its reader to the exciting world of mineralogy and gemcraft. From digging up your first specimens to producing jewelry-ready cut gems, this text has simple, step-by-step instructions from the novice all the way up to the journeyman."
On The Basic Principles of Animating the Recently Deceased,Zyten Aldnehere and others," Very few booksellers will admit to selling this text, but there are some parts of the world where you would be hard-pressed to find a home without it. Hailing from the mysterious city of Eklanna, Zyten Aldnehere passes down rituals, techniques, and useful tips for re-animating the dead so that they may continue to be of use around the home."
We Down Below,"Shadowbane Adran, Elven astrologer, and others", This is a slim volume on astrology and - to a lesser extent - astronomy. It catalogues the movements of moons and planets against the background of stars and advises the student of astrology in understanding their meanings.
What Dreams May Come,"Nidale Niswith, Gnome professor of Oneiromancy"," This is a very large reference text of dream imagery, attempting to catalogue and cross-reference common symbolic representations in dreams. The first hundred pages explain the referencing system. Once understood, the book can be used to decipher nearly any dream, although the author has thoughtfully left some blank template pages in the back for personal additions."
Objects of the Gods: What Is Better Left Unfound,"Chelsey Dawnwolf, Half-Elf cleric of Jundard the Sun God"," While many adventurers search far and wide for relics of the Gods, Dawnwolf contends that they do more harm than good. The book is a catalog of catastrophic events surrounding holy relics, sacred weapons, and other objects that are god-touched."
"Nunc Id Vides, Nunc Ne Vides","Qysan Kevald, Gnomish Illusionist and Faerûn Casino Commission Chairman"," This book, whose cover changes slightly every time you look away from it, is a combination how-to text and cautionary tale. It discusses common illusions, both magical and non-magical, their applications, and the possible consequences of their discovery. Much is made of the use of illusions, palming, and card-counting in gambling, with a very strong suggestion that it be avoided at all costs."
On the Maintenence of Necrological Matricies on Skeletal Forms,"Written by Alther Gerredon, outlaw wizard, and leader of the failed rebellion of Malduren."," The definite text on the creation and maintenance of basic skeletal undead forms, this text cover Alther's revolutionary mapping of the web of necrological energies that allow undead to maintain their form and mobility despite the lack of standard kinesiological structures. Ironically, the text is most popular among paladins, rangers and other dedicated hunters of the dead. Gerredon's work has directly lead to a number of advances in fight against the undead scourge."
Stick 'Em With The Pointy End,"Grock, Orc, Master Swordsman and Skilled Stabber of Things"," This is a treatise on Orcish tactics and sword fighting. Grock himself did not write this book, but dictated it to a scribe. The book also contains detailed illustrations of a large well muscled, shirtless orc (presumably Grock) battling many different people and creatures. Properly studying this book may give a reader a better understanding of the combat tactics of Orcs. Giving the reader a good advantage in combat against them."
The Poisoner's Bible,"Varryn ""just a pinch"" Sweetberry, Poisoner"," This small unassuming tome has no title inscribed upon the cover. It is wrapped in green dyed leather. It contains a comprehensive list of poisons, how to make them, where to acquire the ingredients and how best to apply them. It also contains advice on antidotes and making poisoning look like an accident. If readers know what to look for on the first page is a cryptic hint that there may be other books written by the author on subjects such as untraceable poisons, venom and baking to kill."
On the Wilde and Barbarous Skinwalker Tribes of the Akadian Jungle Basin,"By Oswald Falerin Windsom, a human ""Member in Good Standing of the Orgnomian Explorer's Society, Itinerant Scholar, and Enthusiastic observer of all things Anthropological."""," One of a series of over-ambitious and somewhat inaccurate (not to mention unscientific) treatises on the peoples and cultures to be found on the other side of the Matagon mountains. His works are spared harsh criticism by virtue of being some of the very first of their kind, written centuries ago during the Explorer Society's heyday. While much of the accurate information has been lifted for later texts (guaranteeing these books a place in reference libraries throughout human lands), Mr Windsom's anecdotes lend insights to peaceful interaction with the peoples he met. These personal experiences were not carried over to the more academic books that came after."
Thaumaturgy for Solitary Study Volume 1: Observation and Identification of Magical Phenomena and Auras,"By Charmaigne Garrick, human Archmage and Mistress of the Eight Spheres"," A curious tome that has been banned from the official Library of the Unseen, one of the few inanimate and non-sentient books with that distinction. The text itself is instructional, if cautious, though difficult to digest. Having received no formal tutelage in magic herself (thanks to the bureaucratic interference of the Library of the Unseen), the author has proven poor at instructing others. The series is still well regarded for its thoroughness, and copies can be found affordably in marketplaces in the magocracy of Daktare."
The Curious Properties of the Frostsorrow River and its Effects on Nearby Indigenous Peoples,"By Decimus, changeling researcher for hire, commisioned by the Orgnomian Explorer's Society and an unspecified circle of Daktaran wizards."," This treatise follows the titular river from the delta emptying into the Bay of Jewels north, through the Akadian Jungles, into the plains and steppes of Skromveldt. A trained alchemist, Decimus processes samples of the water at several points on his journey, noting the increasing magic therein. Using his shapeshifting abilities, he was also able to observe in unprecedented detail the rites and behaviors of the pirates, feral tribes, and barbarian clans that live near the banks of that river."
The Compounding of Sin,By an unknown human," This rare and often discounted book is ostensibly a firsthand account of the first human empire and its war with the heavens. According to the text, the gods struck first and were driven by jealousy, as the empire would not worship them, electing instead to create their own deity. As this would make the work over a thousand years old and the survivor of multiple cataclysms, intact originals are unheard of, and the academic world has disregarded supposed copies out of hand (and are frankly doubtful of the existence of the work at all). If this tome were indeed real, and its text intact, inside one could find descriptions of weapons capable of fighting the gods and slaying their nigh-immortal servants."
Surge: My life with wild magic,"Leilanna Stoutbridge, Halfling, Sorcerer and Esteemed Author"," This book is the autobiography of a cheerful, if a little self-absorbed halfing sorcerer. It details her experience of discovering she was a sorcerer, her experiments with magic, her conflict with her inner child, her brief encounter with a flumph and her eventual acceptance of the uncontrollable nature of her magics. This book was a best seller 20 years ago and can be found for a smattering of copper in most stores."
Wild Magic: Understanding my power,"Leilanna Stoutbridge, Halfling, Sorcerer and Esteemed Author"," A much less popular sequel to her first novel ""Surge: My life with wild magic"". The contents of this book, while also semi-autobiographical, are a little more scientific in nature. Within this book Stoutbridge details all the times she has lost control of her magic, the results and possible causes for these surges of power. It also contains some useful observations on metamagic."
An Intensive Study of the Effects of Electro-Majicka on Elemental Metals,"Written by Lantor Warybar, gnome professor of Natural Philosophy"," An incredibly dry tome describing in detail the effects of twelve types of electric magic on 20 known elemental metals of varying purities. It is intended to be used as a reference guide rather than a textbook, so it would be impossible to put into practical use on it's own, but should a question regarding electricity and metals arise, heavens know why, this book has all the answers. Currently, two copies of the book exist: One in the Natural Philosophy department of Yolin University, and one in the Grand Library, for record-keeping sake."
A History of the Night-Wing Empire and the Destruction of the Aether Kingdom,Authored by Master-Overlord Raven," Required reading for any new acolyte to Night-Wing's ranks, it reads more like a storybook than a textbook. It was written by the leader of Night-Wing, Master-Overloard Raven soon after the founding of the cult to attract new recruits with the glory of conquest and victory. Despite it's obvious connections to Night-Wing, it is strangely persuasive to most kinds people regardless of race, alignment or personality. The original resides in Raven's personal library, but copies have been distributed across many dark alleys and shady markets under simpler or even blank titles."
Wiljin Samulkin's Complete Omnibus of Mineral prospecting- exploration and mining: Edition with notes and commentary,"Wiljin Samulkin, Dwarf, Professor Geology at the Stouten University of Braedwardith"," During his successful (but rather lucky) career as a miner, Wiljin made a fortune and decided it was time to write down his knowledge in a vast, 14 volume, omnibus. As if 14 volume are not enough he recently decided to write an extended version with additional notes and commentaries. His notes are so elaborate an additional 6 books were added to the omnibus. Getting a copy of the book is not an easy task as Wiljin is also in charge of the production of it. He considers each buyer's worthiness to get access to his 'genius' writings. Because of this a lot of faked copies circulate, with varying accuracy of the information within. Getting an original copy can provide one with valuable information about possible valuable and untapped mineral deposits. But more often than not people based their mining endeavours on a fake copy and lost every penny they had, harming the credibility of Wiljin."
The Lexicon of Ludicrous Luminescents,"Gerald Magnus, Halfling Wizard"," A comprehensive list of light spells, magic objects, magic creatures and naturally occurring bio-luminescence."
Empire of the Risen Star,"Dullahan,"," The novel, however, does end on a positive note with Theodore Humphrey successfully staging a revolt from within the gulag before moving on to conquer its two neighboring camps and uniting them into the New 42nd. With a new front inside their own borders the Tides of War quickly turned against the Francs and the war would come to an end just over a year later in favor of the Empire of the Risen Star, ending an 18 year conflict."
"Psionics: A Guide to the Intricacies of Mind Reading, Melding and Controlling","""Healthy and wholesome psionic life."""," However, contrary to those beliefs those who actually strictly follow all the lessons, diets, meditations, pilgrimages and rituals held within this tome for exactly one year will gain some competency with psionics. These individuals are usually sought out and recruited to the staff at the University of All Things."
Building Bridges: A Cultural Study: A Series: Vol I: Elves,"Bartholomew Goldthong Leopold the XII of the Magnanimous Barony of San Gordogia, Human Noble"," This book was penned by an egotistic nobleman who thought himself a scholar of the ""Highest Order."" The tome contains many of the intricacies of details of life among the elves. It does in theory accomplish its goal of providing the reader with a broad understanding of elven culture, however, it is also noted to be incredibly self-indulgent and quite racist. Lord Leopold would go on to write six more full volumes in the series for Dragonborn, Dwarves, Halflings, Gnomes, Genasi and Tabaxi. Lord Leopold is thought to have been working on a volume to include the Gestalt when he suffered a fatal aneurysm before finishing the volume. The Gestalt reported that Lord Leopold's mind broke in his attempts to understand the small ratlike creatures."
Of Dice and Pen: A bookie's guide to gambling,"By Pat the rat, human gambler and bookie"," From an insiders perspective Pat leads you past all the common cheats used in all major settlements from Waterdeep to Baldur's Gate. False bottoms, weighted die and common misdirections, he knows all the tricks (because he's used most, and invented some). After reading this you will certainly know how to spot the fish, capture them, put them in a barrel and fire away. If you want to make a buck - why put your trust in Lady Luck?"
Maverick's Guide to Ethical Necromancy vol 1: The Importance of Consent,"Harridin Maverick, Human, Ethical Necromancer"," Harridin Maverick is infamous in Necromancy circles for his vocal campaigning about Ethical Necromancy. Volume one of his work, titled ""The Importance of Consent"" covers his theoretical framework of consent. He believes that before performing necromancy one should gain informed consent from those that they will raise from the dead. He insists that those raised in this matter must not be forced to perform tasks that they would have disagreed with in life. He details several methods for this including getting consent from next of kin, speaking with spirits to gain consent and his controversial stance, that has made him less than popular with naturalists and druids, that animals and creatures he deems of 'lesser intelligence' are not capable of understanding and thus can be raised from the dead without worrying about obtaining consent."
"Maverick's Guide to Ethical Necromancy vol 2: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle","Harridin Maverick, Human, Ethical Necromancer"," The second book in Maverick's series on Ethical Necromancy covers environmental pollution, making good use of finite resources and the importance of his theoretical framework of ""The Three R's, Reduce, Reuse and Recycle"". He insists that practitioners of necromancy, and indeed all magic users, must be aware of the impacts of their magics on the environment. His policy on Reducing waste includes ensuring one only raises the required number of undead, and ensuring proper use of resources. His policy on reusing focuses on using the same raised undead for multiple purposes, decrying those who raise new undead for every task. His policy on recycling includes covering proper disposal and re-burial of raised dead, specifying that if possible they should be returned to their original source."
"Thoughts on creation and maintenance of golemantic magic, constructs and other nonliving animates.","Calivius Senliv, dwarf animist and geologist"," The writer, Calivius Senliv, was a geologist and animation specialist working for the Miners Guild, suplying them with mindless drones to assist in heavy lifting. As his life furthered, he came to the conclusion that making and maintaining golems is, in fact, an incredibly tedious and mind-numbing experience and that it should be possible to expediate the process. The book exists in only 1 copy, written by Senliv himself, which is a highly treasured possession of the Miners Guild, since it details the fast process of making golems and the secret of indefinate animation. The dwarves treasure it beyind measure, and would-be-thieves are punished severely."
The process for and applications of extracted beauty from the eyes of beholder's a dissertation,"by Arch-magus marud d'chauncy, human seer and alchemist to lord Asatropva"," ""beauty is in the eye of the beholder"" However many fail to realize this is not just a saying, but in fact a quantifiable and reproducible resource with he proper synthesis tools, Arch-magus Marud D'chauncy outlines in this book proper extraction and synthesis techniques as well as applications for refined beauty Side note: Arch-magus marud d'chauncy is actually an alias to a known fraud, he is really a divination wizard of middling talent, who wrote many books with results that are almost impossible to reproduce. however this is the one tomb that while he wrote as bullshit, it actually works to everyone's surprise including his own."
Alchaemical Extraction's and it's effect on humors and biles,By Human Alchaemist: Atropa Dona," This early medical text, advises on how using various extractions of alcheamical essences such as silver, gold, and lead. and various other alchaemical processes can be used to extract the various bile's from the body and re-balance the humors of those effected by various disease's as well as a detailed guide on bloodletting to supplement the healing effects of these tincture's."
A field dissertation on the edibility of various non-humanoid's,"By half-orc ""researcher"" Drakus Red-rage"," A controversial book to say the least mostly due to Drakus's Loose interpretation of ""non-humanoid"" He goes into detail the multitude of ways an adventure could cook, prepare and consume A bestiary's worth of creatures, as well as the various other uses for the parts of creatures that you are unable to consume. and the various positive or negative effect's this gives you"
"Fungus for Life: Myconids, Spores, and Other Fungi for Healing","Arkin Toosel, human male alchemist, Tribute to his late wife Dehlia"," Arkin Toosel was an esteemed alchemist in the farming village of Sandel who prospered in helping the town grown hearty vegetables, sweet fruits, and meaty livestock. He used his skills in alchemy to help the farmers find correct levels in the soil and food to feed to make sure everything was top of the line. His home expanded to the mansion that sits at the center of the village and is now known as the luxury inn, Sandel Suites. As Arkin aged, living out his life with his beautiful wife Dehlia, she was poisoned by a vicious illness that none in the land had ever seen. Arkin toiled in his lab, concocting serums, potions, salves and other ointments to help Dehlia. Which in the end - only helped, never healed. He eased her suffering as he researched more and more and delved into the world of fungi in depth, finding their ability to thrive in the the worst environments and on the wastes of others. Knowing an old Drow he befriended years ago, who lived in a nearby mountain entrance to the Underdark, he discovered many of the properties of the wild Fungi of the Underdark. In one final expedition, he kissed his wife goodbye and sought out more knowledge to see how it work. He left her in good hands of the village family and nearby city healers would check on her every 24 hours. He arrived home just in time to see her final goodbye. Held in his embrace, he kiss her lips as she parted to the afterlife. Forlorn from the loss of his wife, Arkin became obsessed with defeating the strange illness that over took his wife. He worked more and more. Pushing the boundaries of medicine like never before, using the Fungi as inspiration. Showing the ability for humans to learn to live off the negativity in their body and basically eat the illness that could hurt them. As he discovered more and more helpful things, many in the village found this to be... unsettling. Alone in his mansion, working in an underground laboratory Arkin was breaching into the world of Necromancy. The village would have no such thing and has a local city guard seek out Arkin for safety and possible mental help. Bursting through the door, Arkin was drug away from his home, his work, his life, to mental hospital in the city of Orndell. The mansion, inherited by his next of kin Sara and her wife Owen, they went to visit her uncle. Seeing him behind magic barrier and the madness in his eyes she pleaded for him to calm down. He looked her square in the eye and said he was not mad, he only wished to help those who needed it. He told her where to find his findings, to let others known there are ways to fight the worse diseases in the land. She nodded and sought out the hundreds of pages of treatise, essays, and studies Arkin had done. Some time after that Arkin has escaped from the mental hospital, visited his mansion one last time to seal his workshop safely, took the rest of his work and is currently missing."
The Grimoires of Grepniak vol. 1-6,"Dictated by Grepniak the Destroyer (Orc), Penned by Hubert Longfingers (Gnome)"," Volumes 1-6 of the Grimoires of Grepniak relate to stories Grepinak tells of his interactions with goblins. Any one of the volumes on it's own seems little more than a smattering of ancedotal tales, but together provide a rather comprehensive account of nearly all facets of goblin soceity."
The Grimoires of Grepniak vol. 7,"Dictated by Grepniak the Destroyer (Orc), Penned by Hubert Longfingers (Gnome)", Volume 7 of The Grimoires of Grepniak tells of Grepinak's interactions with Hobgoblins. While the information on it's own is notable it builds largly on the foundations built in the first six volumes.
The Grimoires of Grepniak vol. 8-10,"Dictated by Grepniak the Destroyer (Orc), Penned by Hubert Longfingers (Gnome)", Volumes 8-10 of The Grimoires of Grepniak retell stories of Grepniak interacting with Orcs. These volumes tell much of orcish battle tactics and fighting styles.
The Grimoires of Grepniak vol. 11-12,"Dictated by Grepniak the Destroyer (Orc), Penned by Hubert Longfingers (Gnome)"," These volumes tell of the Gnolls, largely stories or Grepinak and his associates fighing Gnolls and records of Gnoll warband movements during Grepniak's lifetime."
The Grimoires of Grepniak vol. 13,"Dictated by Grepniak the Destroyer (Orc), Penned by Hubert Longfingers (Gnome)"," Volume 13 comes with a preface warning the reader there isn't much actionable information contained in the 13th volume but Grepinak refused to tell his stories if thses tales weren't included. The stories start in many diffrent ways, from casual interactions to the middle of battles, but all eventually turn out to be tales of Grepinak's sexual conquests. Strangly by far the best selling volume."
Marland's Martial Manuscript,"Written by Marland Verifor, Human, Weapons Master and Instructor"," Written as a guide to weapons and their various uses in combat situations Marland considered himself a creative and infallible weapons master. While his instructions are clear, concise, and generally good advice its things most learn on their first day holding a weapon of any kind. Its still considered a good primer for those interested in taking up arms rather than magic and can be found in most libraries or martial training schools."
A Guide to Consequence-Free Oaths,Written by Grindoc Oathsworn," An ancient text bound in the crinkly skin of some unholy creatures Akel's Text is a comprehensive guide to aberrant creatures and all aspects of the Far Realm. As the book progresses, the handwriting grows more and more unsteady, the language less precise and more esoteric, until the last couple pages are nothing more than a smear of unidentifiable liquid. Essentially a legal document, the Guide shows the reader the best way to maximize the benefits of magical dealings while minimizing the risks to ones soul or substance. It has sections on devils, demons, Yugoloths, fey spirits, and even the Gods themselves."
Observed Behaviour: an essay concerning Understanding Humans and their Behaviour.,"By Johnathan Locksmith, Half-Elf, 2259 of the Common Count, written in Aramyr, city of Crystal"," This small book, written in the form of a field guide, has been a true saviour to many diplomats, traders and rulers of the non-human races. Written by the well traveled Johnatan Locksmith, a Half Elf who sought to make other races understand the often confusing means and motives of humans, Observed Behaviour: An Essay Concerning Understanding Humans and their Behaviour, offers a well researched and in depth study that truly teaches one the ins and outs of human behaviour. It has been transcribed in many of the existing languages and is widespread throughout the realms, with the original forever remaining in the possession of Locksmith. Some say that hidden in some copies are subtle tips on manipulating the will of humans, although that has to be nonsense, right?"
A Cultural History of Vampires,"Zoltep, dwarf cleric and Chief Historian at the College of Korstadt"," This book was penned by Zoltep early in his career, long before he became Chief Historian. Copies are somewhat rare, as research into vampires is uncommon, but there are a few dozen libraries and universities which have one. The book contains information about the history of vampires, and their role in society, along with their appearances and role in fiction. The book also distinguishes from what is true about vampires from what is simply myth and rumour."
Edible and Inedible Flora of the Seven Realms,"Reder Damsev, Human Ranger"," Reder spent much of his life in the wilderness, and became accustomed to recognizing which plants were edible, and which would leave you dead. Late in his life, he wrote down much of the knowledge he acquired, along with sketches and other methods of identifying these plants."
Observations of an Ale Drake,"Dictated by Gabriel, Ale drake of Gunmars Rest to Vixus Plenni, Half Elf Skald visiting the Dwarven Citadel of Gahl-Marnok"," This beaten and dusty book contains hundreds of anecdotes, poems, limericks, short stories, jokes and illustrations of the life and times of an Ale Drake known only as Gabriel. Leafing through it is clear that some pages have been torn or cut out from the book, perhaps map descriptions, fragments or clues to great mysteries, tales of legends or possibly even incriminating evidence? Who knows what Gabriel overheard in his years in the Inn? Who knows what other things some people may find useful in the book? Gabriel also speaks at length about his long interactions with Dwarves and how better to lever coin from their iron grips through flattery and taking advantage of their stubborn but fair nature."
"Fey summoning, fair or foul?","PROUDLY Written and Self Published by Veirfurn Blousiiere, High Elf, Former Student at the Arcane Zoological society, Til-Ferthic"," The book opens with a plea to the reader that if they are of the ability to summon creatures from they fey for whatever reason they give serious consideration to the feelings of the creature they summon. He goes on to express his sincere concern that so many times these creatures are brought into being only for them to be killed moments after summoning so that some ignorant and cowardly ""hero"" who has just this week grasped the art of summoning can run away from the fight he more than likely started. The book continues in a very rant like style and his message is all over the place, often repeating himself and dropping former colleagues names into the mix. However, Veirfurns illustrations and information on fey creatures is very precise and his explanations of what is actually occurring during the summoning process is very interesting."
Toxic Flora and Fauna by Habitat,"Dr. Christa Koval, Kobald, Chemistry", A compilation of the toxic effects to humans resulting from exposure to various plants / animals / natural substances. The effects are based on the real world results of contacting various poisons/venoms/etc. put together for a campaign taking place after I took step 1 of the U.S. medical board exams this past summer.
"Beyond the Hook: Mechanics, Magic, and Medicine to Mend a Man","Written by Archibald BewCannon, human, former pirate, tinkerer and dabbler in the arcane arts."," A rough and ready sort, BewCannon learned his craft at sea, applying tattoos and assisting the crew sawbones with his butcheries after each battle. Always fearful of the surgeon's knife, BewCannon applied himself to finding better solutions than the customary eye patch, peg leg, and hook hand. He left the sea to ply his trade honestly in Boca La Paz, a major trading port on the southern coast of Kalyva, where he opened BewCannon's Body Shop, ""specializing in tattoos and body piercings,"" though he also deals with the occasional slashing and bludgeoning. Known to customers as Bucky, he can fix nearly any injury. The book includes detailed notes on anatomy, metallurgy and materials, alchemy and medicines, and the magic that fuses it all together."
A Contemporary and Critical Edition of Malfarin's Translations of Ur-Ruminations of Lingua Magicka Volume 1: Being The Editor's Discussion of Subsisting Research on the Field of Lingua Magicka and the Maligned Role of the Ur-Ruminations,"Professorial Inquisitor Hlaford, Human Aristocrat and master of Linguistics in the High Hall's inquisitorial researchers"," Written and held in the monastery of the Dead-Thulr in the warren of the High Hall. Volume 1 examines the concept of the 'lingua magicka' the long sought language of magic irrespective of nationality, race, or planar existence. The Editor argues that the Malfarin's translations of the ancient works called the 'Ur-Ruminations' are the closest that any scholar has got to finding some of the lingua magicka's words and grammar."
"A Contemporary and Critical Edition of Malfarin's Translations of Ur-Ruminations of Lingua Magicka Volume 2, part 1: Being The New Translation of the Ramblings of Wahida, Druid of Chaos and The Editor's Discussion of the Druid's Craft Including a New Insight into the Phonics of the Lingua Magicka.","Professorial Inquisitor Hlaford, Human Aristocrat and master of Linguistics in the High Hall's inquisitorial researchers"," The unfinished second volume treats with Wahida, the Druid of Chaos who in former times founded the Druidic Circle of Unbalance which is still forbidden by most Druidic councils and indeed sovereign states. Dismissed as a mad woman she wrote a number of fragments of incoherent text in a language of her own devising. These fragments make repeated reference to a group of animals that she long traveled with. Unfortunately the Professorial Inquisitor Halford's promised revelations about the phonics of the Lingua Magicka are not contained in part one and as he disappeared during research the two volumes remain tantalisingly incomplete."
"Treatise on the Surlandian Environs: A Comprehensive Look at the Flora, Fauna, and Developed Geographical Formations of the Surlandian Continent","Nightingale, Adventurer, Scout, and Former Gryphon Knight, serving as Cartographer for Solaria."," Rathyn has written many volumes in his lifetime and this is one of the major texts of the Sunnarri Academy that he created. It serves as a guidebook and introductory level course material for new students of magic in the Sunnarri Academy as well as anyone interested in fire or light magic. This book is a large volume with expressive pictorial displays of flora, fauna, and topographical maps compiled and arranged by the enigmatic author Nightingale. He is well known throughout the Solarian realm as the masked hero. He has long been recognized by his signature mask and armor and now he is recognized for his contributions to the Solarian advance in Surland. He spent nearly a decade traveling in the Surlandian wilds and this book is the culmination of those travels. It is widely accepted as the only authority of the Surland continent and limited to only three copies at the time of this writing. I have lots more but I'm at work will have to add more later."
The Dragon Prince: Legends of the Lost Temple,"Maraxes Blackfyre, Dragonborn Poet"," In this tome, Vicerro Santiago goes over the steps for preparing for and starting a farm for Arcane and Divine flora in many of the world's biomes. In between chapters, he has his personal notes on how he got to the theory in the previous chapters. There have been three reprints over the years, but collectors have sought his original manuscripts over the years (which are believed to be in the personal collection of his master, Madre Bella the Crystalline Dragon), as they are believed to hold his discovery of trans-dimensional cabbages, left out of his later works. Many years ago, there was a pair of performers who changed the Art of music as we know it, creating a new college for bards who wanted to break the chains of tradition and create new music. This text book was created for first year students, and is altered every year by the top graduating students in order to keep the book from becoming the tradition it was created to resist. There are currently 73 different versions of the book (given to the students for free in their first year), with the original versions being heralded as collector's items for musicians around the world. Edit to add more books: In the first volume of her Dragon Prince series, Maraxes opens up the series with a story based off her real world adventures in the Dragon Empire. In here, a keen eye can actually find the Hidden Temple she references of they're looking hard enough."
"Of the Fey and Feywild, a progressive study into both courts including biological and behavioral observations made on their kind in their natural enviroment","Bilmir Helleward, Gnome, Racial Sociology and planar sciences"," This comprehensive guide offers you all you need, want and ever could know on the mysterious dwellers of the Feywild, they Fey. Written, researched and compiled by the famous Bilmir Helleward! Bound in rich leather and capped with gold filligree, this tremendously treasured tome is not only pleasing to the mind, but also to the eye."
Close Encounters of the Bird Kind; Living Amongst Our Winged Kin,"Maraval Holimion, Wood Elven Anthropologist."," Written by an aspiring scholar in a mountaintop settlement, this book details the intricate aspects of Aarakocra society and behavior, covering things such as religion, art, music, fashion, and more. It has found it's way to libraries across the world, offering rare insights into the reclusive and claustrophobic species."
Winning a War the Wizard's Way,"Quortho Jheeg, Human Evoker."," This tome was submitted as Quortho's thesis paper, and it goes into long (and arduous) detail about the strengths of the School of Evocation, particularly in battle. There are two copies- one he carries on him, as it duals as his spellbook, and the original he sent to his college."
"Vascal Tiernath, Elven Hierophant of the Steppes",The Cry of The Earth," A treatise detailing the controversial position that civilization should no longer harness the powers of captured elementals. Major cities, and citizens with the means, began capturing and pulling the power from elementals to power flameless torches, land ships and all manner of new devices that offer creature comforts. While Vascal empathizes with the urge to create and our innate curiosity, she also claims to have felt pain from these creatures and calls their use exploitive. In a particularly ominous conclusion, she suggests that it may be necessary for.a group of agitators to rise up against the practice swiftly, should elementals ever gain the capacity to communicate and organize themselves."

Villain Name,Description

Gregori Allson," Bastard child of a noble and a half-orcish seamstress Gregori grew up an orphaned street urchin after his mother was taken by plague. Eventually adopted by traveling nomads he learned the old magics from his adopted family, but on experiencing the wider world became embittered with their pacifist beliefs and struck out on his own, seeking to unite the downtrodden in society and find the long lost homeland of the nomads. What started out as idealistic movement has become to turn more and more towards violence. Perhaps because of the increasing needs of the swelling pilgrimage/crusade, perhaps because of the more frequent, violent and organized opposition from local nobility or perhaps because of the slow influence of the forbidden killing songs that he finds himself forced to rely on more and more to protect and feed his exodus."
Kordel the Black," A mercenary leader and giant of a man Kordel is all the more fearsome for the stylized black plate armor he wears at all times and the swath of black scales that cover almost half his face. Rumored to be the descendant of a black dragon he is immune to acids and poisons, has been known to disarm opponents by shattering their blades with his gauntlets and is able to breath a black fog that causes his enemies to flee in terror, though in truth those abilities are all thanks to the powerful enchantments he's paid to have placed on his armour throughout his long career. Kordel leads his band of mercenary soldiers, the Sons of the Dragon, through an equal mix of fear and loyalty. Famed for personally killing anyone who harms a man under his command outside of battle he is an almost father like figure to his soldiers. He also is known to value honesty to a fault, the rare instance of any of his soldiers attempting to hide behind his reputation to pick fights has resulted in said soldier being horribly beaten and left lying near death and penniless in the village square when his band moves on."
Zektral the Crazed," Zektral is the closest thing most goblins will ever have to a commander. All he really is is a bigger than average goblin who really likes to hurt people. Zektral has a knack for whipping his allies into a frenzy, and the swarming mass of bodies that he commands can tear through the towns that border goblin territory. While he and his ilk wouldn't stand up to a real army, the goblin hordes are a terror to the militias that dutifully try to protect their little towns."
Roderick the Abandoned," Roderick was a regular sergeant in the army. He was bright, optimistic, and a fine leader. Then his division was sent into a suicidal charge. They were told they were going to valiantly repel the enemy, but what they really did was distract their foes while the real army moved in for a flank. Everyone died. Including Roderick. This betrayal by the army that he so valiantly served birthed a terrible hatred in Roderick. His soul was so twisted that it refused to leave the mortal plane, and Roderick returned in undeath. Now, he drags soldiers back from their rest in the afterlife, and wields them against the very nation he once protected."
Necktearer the Top Dog Alpha," Necktearer was once a normal man, whose name has been lost to tale and story. This man lived in a lovely little logging town, in a lovely little house, with his lovely little wife and two lovely little children. And then the howls came. Villagers started disappearing. Livestock were found picked to the bone. The little town had a werewolf. One full moon, things got even worse. Screams came from the man's house, and by the time anyone could arrive to help, Necktearer had devoured his family. He let out a blood-curdling howl, and the terrified villagers steadied themselves for a fight. But then the howls were answered. Werewolves poured out of the forest by the dozen, answering their new alpha. Necktearer's pack decimated the town, leaving nothing but splintered wood and bloodstains behind. And now, this veritable army of claws and gnashing fangs needs a new source of food."
The Raven-Knight," The Raven-Knight is rumored to be an immortal warlord who commands a small mercenary army. While few in number, the Raven-Knight and its band of merry men have been terrorizing outland counties for more than a century. Their list of feats include everything from robbing caravans, holding nobles hostage for ransom, and sieging small castles. The Raven-Knight's armor, along with its followers, are adorned with black feathers and imagery of birds. In truth, the Raven-Knight has been a title passed down from generation to generation of hearthless (and heartless) ""knights"". Due to this, tales of the Raven-Knight are never in agreement on the warlord's true identity."
General Xiao Song," Xiao Song used to live the ascetic life of a warrior monk. But when the Empire razed his temple, he led his brothers in a decade-long campaign of guerilla war against the government. When a new dynasty came into power, they granted him amnesty for his past crimes, in exchange for becoming a general under the new Imperial rule. With ruthless precision, he has been removing anyone and anything in opposition to the new Emperor. Xiao Song has earned a reputation of being absolutely brutal in his work."
Malbro of Misfortune," Malbro the gnome comes from a long line of necromancer-kings. But unlike his forefathers, he could never muster a kingdom-shaking army like the days of old. Thus, Malbro lives a life of a warlord, pillaging and animating his way across the countryside. He is best known for being very fond of animals. One such tale is about a gnomish lord who, after successfully retaking his manor from Malbro, was killed by a massive swarm of skeletal rats four years after. In the process of renovating his manor, the workers knocked down a wall which released the undead swarm. The mansion remains abandoned to this day, rumored to be cursed by the vile necromancer."
Medea Cruitzmann," Kicked out of the Rembrancers after seeking out hidden knowledge for her own power and gain, Medea has been one of the youngest and brightest initiates of that secretive school of mystics, academics and sages. Now working for herself, or occasionally hiring herself out to others, Medea is a keen shot with her trusty hand crossbow, and a proficient fencer, but prefers to rely on her hard-fought-for magical skills and knowledge, and her constantly changing cast of hired hands when it comes to a fight. Last seen in Gravelby area, Medea seems to be searching for tomes of power, rather than artifacts as she previously was..."
Underseer Karnak," Similar in rank to a Duke or Count in the human Kingdom above - or Obergraz as he would say - Underseer Karnak is responsible for a recent rash of raids, kidnappings and other crimes perpetrated by Duergar footsoldiers and their duped orcish allies. Seeking to gain blood sacrifices and slaves for the dark rituals of his ally, High Priest Corax, Karnak has let loose a war between men, duergar and orcs in the lands above with no care for the loss of life."
"Kradugg, Chief of the Blackbones"," Kradugg cuts a handsome figure—for an orc. Tall, well-muscled, with long, dark hair, Kradugg is well known for his skill with the spear on the field of batte as well as for his romantic escapades, having more than a dozen wives of orkish, human, and mongrel stock. The Blackbones were driven down out of the high passes of the northern mountains by the migration of the giants. He's been leading his raiders in burning and pillaging the Borderlands towns attempting to carve out a sizable enough territory that his people can live on hunting. Kradugg's armor is adorned in crow feathers and he takes a finger from every enemy he vanquishes himself on the field of battle. After the battle is won, he cooks a pot of ""finger soup,"" seasoning it himself and sharing it with his lieutenants claiming the fingers will point the way to his next great victory."
"Sir Symon Narback, Captain of the Greenscale Company"," Sir Symon was once the toast of the kingdom. A genteel knight and a champion of many tourneys, Sir Symon was outed as the queen's paramour and driven to exile by the enraged king. He found a home among the Greenscale Company and rose quickly through the ranks of that storied band of sellsword and ne'er-do-wells. Symon has brought discipline to the Greenscales as well as several military victories which have led to increasingly lucrative contracts. The camp followers whisper that Sir Symon boasts of a plan to turn his company homeward soon to bring vengeance to the king who exiled him and to claim the queen as his own."
General Mattos Gorakas," The prince is wrong to trust General Mattos Gorakas, all his advisors see the ambition in the general, but the prince has been charmed by the dangerous hero who trained him in arms as a boy. Gorakas commands the city's legion and that same magnetic charm has won him absolute allegiance from the officers and enlisted men. Gorakas grew up a servant to royalty and has harbored a resentment of the privilege of birth all his life. His warm, mustachioed smile never touches his steely grey eyes."
General LaMarchande," A tall and imposing man he is the leader of one of the largest armies on the continent. They take on all sorts of jobs and often find themselves forcibly recruiting young men from villages they raid. The men ""volunteer"" to protect their homes and families who are then held as a sort of ransom for the loyalty of the men."
Krulkut the Red, Orc warlord who leads raiding parties into human lands seeking sacrifices for his god. As a young Orc he spent several weeks in the Craltur desert and his skin burned a deep red and has remained that way ever since. Upon his return he forcibly converted his people to their new god and begin strange rituals and regular sacrifices. He wields a strange and terrible power.
Lord of War," This infamous mercenary commander has an uncanny knack of sniffing out where and when the next conflict will emerge. The Lord of War and his company, the Bloody Boars, always seem to arrive prior to the outbreak of any major war, battle or skirmish. This reputation has spread far and wide, and now peasants cower whenever the banner of the Bloody Boars is erected near their homes. Rumours abound that the Lord of War manufactures these war through assassinations, subterfuge, blackmail and various nefarious means. There is only one tale that is demonstrably true; the Lord of War offers no mercy and takes no prisoners. Torture, pain and destruction are the preferred methods for the Lord of War."
The Soulmancer," The Soulmancer has studied a school of magic that has never been thought possible; the manipulation and binding of schools. Initially a field within the Necromancy school, the Soulmancer pushed the limits of studied until he found a branch of magic powered through the souls of living beings. His spells are powered by captured souls that were stripped from formerly living beings. This allows him to create spectral warriors, manufacture intelligent artifacts, and bind the souls of loyal servants to new bodies to extend their life. The one ingredient the Soulmancer needs is souls in abundance, and on the battlefield he can steal souls without causing too much ire or suspicion. The Soulmancer travels the world, offering his services as a war mage and accomplished strategist."
Gullblaster," Gullblaster is a fearsome bugbear general. He commands an army of goblins, and has proven himself time and time again an uncanny tactician. His three commanding officers, a goblin name Dart and two hobgoblins name Fink and Dongo, follow his every command, and show just as much cunning on the battlefield. His best units employ intricate wood-carved machinery, designed by his unnaturally crafty ""N-Gun Ears"". He wears a green amulet around his neck, which he never removes. He attacks human settlements, attacking at night and taking them by surprise. His conquest appears to be heading in a straight line toward an ancient, rotting forest, where a great lich was felled a long, long time ago."
Schlechten Meister Kerker," This powerful wizard commands his armies not from the field, but from his tower, through his unique scry-board. The battlefields are projected upon the board, and small figures appear to show the positions of his opposers, as well as his armies. Drawing upon the ancient knowledge of many great generals who came before him, he crafts dramatic battles, often taking the time to make a great deal of slaying the heroes on the battlefield. Though, he keeps an ever watchful eyes on those who oppose his power, and much prefers to craft innocent-looking situations that put the strongest warriors and most knowledgeable wizards in great peril. He wishes only to rule the lands, unopposed and with an iron grip."
Admiral Khaadrun," Race: Copper Dragonborn Class: Ranger (Hunter) The admiral of a rather unpleasant kingdom, Khaadrun hunts a variety of humanoids as well as innocent Merfolk for their treasures and magic. Once you are marked, you better armor up, because there is no running from the Admiral."
Nitarog the Impaler," Few orc warlords in history can compare to the legend of Nitarog Grimeye, Spear King and Impaler, and black-hearted mastermind behind the genocidal and destructive conquests of the Principalities of Allonel, and the nations surrounding them. He was an Eye of Gruumsh (Though not a spellcaster), possessing equal amounts of cunning brutality and brutal cunning, he was equal parts terrifying killing machine and master strategist. He possessed a single right eye, which was said to be able to kill the meek-hearted with a single stare. After first conquering the ancient mountain dwarf kingdom of Urshakd, he swept into the lowlands of Allonel, and struck down the human and elven Princes, burned their cities, and enslaved their peoples. By the end of his life, the once proud multiracial nations had been reduced to squabbling Orc chiefdoms, with the human inhabitants reduced to slaves, and anything even resembling a dwarf or an elf slaughtered."
High Fang-chief Gurubayogg," In an old deserted wood-elven realm, brought low by cultists of Baphomet, lycanthropy runs rampant among its current goblin inhabitants, at the behest of the Prince of Beasts. The various hobgoblin tribes, and the werewolf packs ruling them, have long feuded with one another, until one of the lycan Fang-Chiefs defeated all his rivals, and united all the various werewolf packs (And their tribes) into a single, great horde of primitive, barbarian goblinoids. With the unnatural werebeasts serving as a form of shock troops and cavalry, the hobgoblins swept into the other elven realms under the High Fang-Chief Gurubayogg, and were only barely beaten back by elite wood elf forces armed with magical weaponry. Gurubayogg survived, however, and still commands his loyal packs to raid the elven border hamlets. Should he be slain, however, the packs would fracture and go their own way..."
"Ser Dagmar, of Sevensooth Abbey"," Ser Dagmar was also a very possessive man. He coveted the wife of his best friend and arranged it so that his friend's legion was caught in an enemy trap and eradicated. He then moved to comfort the grieving widow. When his own wife discovered this, she threatened to expose him and he cut her down in a fit of rage. Unfortunately, the widow witnessed it and fled to the fortress at Sevensooth Abbey with him hot on her tail. He demanded that the priests turn her over to them but they denounced him as an anathema in the eyes of the gods. That night, he stormed the Abbey while they slept and tortured the priests to get them to reveal her housing place, but none could tell him because she'd snuck away. Refusing to believe them, he tortured and slew every inhabitant of the keep until none survived. Outraged, the God of the Abbey cursed him to forever live a half- life, imprisoned within the Abbey, surrounded by the shambling corpses of his soldiers and haunted by the spirits of the priests."
Grazlav the Fearless," Few dare to stand in the shadow of this great warlord. He gazes upon armies with a look as were he superior to all. Hobgoblin in nature, Grazlav grew up with war. His father being a warlord and his brother being in the army, the fierce hobgoblin learned the way of war at a very young age. However, not much later did his clever prudence turn into rage and revenge, as his right arm was cut off in a battle against an elven soldier. Not much later was his brother kidnaped and eventually killed by the great Silverant Legion. It was then that his fierce and utterly ruthless rage for the elves was birthed. He grew into a full-fledged warlord, sometimes called the One Armed, though he did have a false arm in place of his stump. To this day, Grazlav has been feared and has earned much respect among hobgoblins and goblinoids."
Fendris North," A human with a number of magic items on his person and the abilities of a sorcerer, he wants to rule the plains and manipulates other villains(read as: ""Competition"") into taking over regions for him, he then inevitably betrays them and takes their lands. Expect him to be making deals with the major villains using false names."
Admiral Eldrush Mac Drenghus," The Mac Drenghus family may be a well-respected clan, but they bear a single shame: Eldrush, the only son of the famed general Ilrick. While Eldrush idolized his heroic father, there was a single thing he idolized more: gold. So much so, that he offered to tell the empire that his kingdom was defending against about his father's plans for the war in exchange for a hefty sum of money. Eventually, he was caught, but not before being responsible for the loss of countless battles. He was exiled, before swiftly finding his place as an officer for the empire for which he spied. As he worked his way up the ranks, he became the admiral of the imperial fleet. As well as leading battles, he enjoys raiding merchant ships and pillaging port towns. If he were not flying the imperial flag, he would be known as a pirate king. He prefers to stay on his fortified galleon far away from battles he commands, enjoying all the luxuries he can afford. He is a skilled duelist, but this is not a skill he uses much - underhanded tactics are much preferred in single combat, especially if his underlings are there to assist him."
Johnny Snakeye," A former pirate who is now the commander of the town guard, he is known for false imprisonment of innocent people and torture. Although he is a human he has a parrot that only speaks drakonic."
Prince Radcliffe the Halfdead," Feared by most of the nobility Radcliffe was given a position in the far northern edge of the Kingdom to defend it against the Barbarian tribes of the north. Here his impressive military mind was shown, and his skill with the blade. Upon the death of his father many will oppose the Halfdead's claim, and he will do anything to claim his birthright, even calling upon the powers of his ancient blade to summon the fearsome Order of the Grave."
Zarintra Torghym'tyl," Zarintra was born a High Elf to two clerics of Corellon. She was kidnapped shortly after birth during a Drow raid. The matriarch of the Torghym'tyl house thought it would be amusing to fully corrupt a child of Corellon devotees. The child was raised as though she were as a Drow, taught to find joy in subjugation, assassination, and torture. Her devotion to Lloth was absolute and she became a priestess at the earliest opportunity. With cold calculated intent, and a bit of luck, Zarintra ended up the only remaining heir to the Torghym'tyl house. When she ascended to the position she found no respect or recognition among her Drow ""peers."" Determined to prove her worth, and their foolishness, Zarintra packed up her house and took her retainers and slaves out of the city and into the Underdark. She was determined to find a way to destroy the nearest surface city. With this in mind she continued to do what she had been taught to find pleasure in. She subjugated, tortured and now conquered her way across the Underdark accepting any that would do her bidding and enslaving or killing those that would not."
Warlord Valeth," Class: Warlock Location: The Northern Dominion of Valkhan Flag: Two argent diagonals with demon’s head upon a field of Gules Motto: We Strike Fear The Northern Dominion of Valkhan is a young state, carved by Valeth Sunburst. Until very recently, the northern territories were mostly inhabited by different tribes of men and elves, nomadic hunters and shamans who would make their way from time to time to another city to trade the product of their hunt with the locals. Their land was strife with danger, from the wildlife but also from the conflict that would erupt between the tribes for dominance over the most frugal piece of land one could find in the Frozen Wastes. That changed with the arrival of Valeth. Found by the Jiansi Tribe when he was a young boy of three, Valeth was put under the care of the shaman, an old man name Xo-Shi and expected to learn the craft from him and replace him when death would claim him. The boy was talented and learn the craft quickly; Xo-Shi would claim that it was Jiansi spirit himself that had lead the tribe to find Valeth. Upon a very rigorous winter, Valeth’s mentor died of hypothermia and Valeth was left to assume the mantle of spiritual leader for his people. He served for many years in such a role, but felt that his talents were wasted as a simple advisor whose suggestions were often ignored because of his inexperience. Fed up with it, Valeth stood before the Khan and ask for combat. The fight was short and would stay engraved within the mind of all those present for years to come. Valeth’s blade struck true every time, drawing blood and staining the snow covered ground while his opponent never reached him. When the Khan had barely enough strength left to stand, Valeth struck with magic and the screams that followed were said to be heard for miles. Now Khan of the Jiansi Tribe, Valeth was free to pursue his own ambitions. He gathered the warriors and told them that a new age had come for the northern tribes. No longer were they to stand divided, unity was soon to be brought upon them. And so it was, that Valeth carved himself a path to power by defeating tribes after tribes and proclaiming himself leader of their people. When the last tribe fell under his sway, Valeth proclaimed the land that stretches from the Hoarfrost to the river of Syria to be under the control of the Northern Dominion of Valkhan."
The Monster of Salt Rock," Beneath the dungeons of the seaside castle of Salt Rock, a beast of many tentacles and malevolent thought sleeps in a frigid, briny lagoon of a large cavern. The monster wakes every dozen years or so and chooses one of the castle's gaolers as a messenger. Sending the poor man to whisper to the lord of the castle, reminding him of an old promise. A bargain struck in time of need by one of the lord's forebears, ""Keep me well-fed, and your kin shall e'er rule these seas. Deny me, and I shall devour all over your line. Where'er they may be, I shall find them and call them to the sea."""
Old Horace," The man who is called Old Horace (best just call him ""Horace"" in his presence) is unusual to say the least. He haunts the Docks and the alleyways of the Thieves' Quarter hobbling along, sniffing. Bent-backed and with a necrotizing wound where one eye should be, he slinks about the city nibbling on dead rats, raw fish, and recently deceased humans when he can get his bony hands on them. Horace knows a great many things about a great many people in high and low places. How he knows these things is a mystery, but he's happy to talk to anyone who can stand his foul smell and who offers him some sort of human meat on which to gnaw. But once the meat runs out, he's likely to try to take a finger or a toe to feed his constant hunger."
Gladda Grippyweed," Gladda is an old night hag who delights in hunting the great white swans that nest among the lakes and ponds of the Whistlewood. She never eats the meat, preferring roots and the flesh of humans and halflings to poultry and gamebirds, but she has uses for fresh swan's blood in her spells and she delights in destroying beautiful things, especially with her long fingernails and teeth, each filed to a sharp point. There are herbs that can grow in fetid bogs that are of great use for Gladda's dreamwalking spells in which she catches glimpses of the future. The forest makes a home for creatures that eat these rare wild herbs before they can flower. Gladda aspires to burn the entire Whistlewood to cinders and then flood the region to create a vast, poisonous bog. Thus far, she's only managed that feat for a few hundred yards around the pond on which her hut leans against a dead oak."
Yonal Yoglas," A towering frost giant with rotten teeth and a short temper, Yonal Yoglas gathers allies and waits. The men of the North drove his people into the high passes of the Hoary Range two centuries ago, and rather than perish, he chose to wait. The cold, grassy meadows below mountains had been the winter home of the great elk herds and the wolves that followed them that once wandered the North. After the men slaughtered the herds, the giants took to eating the men's sheep and cattle when meat north of the Hoaries became scarce in the winter months. Yonal Yoglas decided long ago that to save the giants, they would have to face near starvation for decades as they gathered their strength from the scattered caves in the high passes. Now, he has over 150 giants, trolls, and other cast-offs of the Old North poised to launch a terrific campaign to drive the men back into the sea and reclaim the lands for the giants."
Doom's Servant," This agent of the Dead God often takes the form of a tall, roughly-humanoid figure cloaked in black with a hood drawn down over its face. Many sources claim the Servant favors killing by way of a huge scythe, some suggest a headsman's axe, still others by way of a poisoned dagger. Death is a mercy for all mortals who must suffer the uncomfortable pangs of life in this world. The Servant works tirelessly, wandering the lands, leaving plague, famine, and wars in its wake, striving to bring death swiftly to all so that they may find peace beyond the veil. One written account by a half-mad priest describes the visage of the Servant beneath the hood; the priest died three nights after putting the words to parchment."
"Alitheal, the Gentle Light"," At the dawn of the current age, the God of Justice weighed the hearts of men in the world and declared them unfit to continue. He sent his angel Alitheal to walk the world, bringing sweet and gentle death to the good souls, so they may be spared suffering this existence among such wickedness. Alitheal slips into bedchambers in the pre-dawn light to gently kiss the life from innocents. Whole villages have lost most of the infants and children in a single morning at the hands of this angel of mercy. In most cases, Alitheal has moved on to deliver souls in another place at the next dawn before any can comprehend what has happened. A few dreamseers have received visions of Alitheal's work, and their nightmares have fed a growing fear and panic that has called on the bravest hunters to slay the Gentle Light."
The Archaeomagrix," Prior to becoming the refuse dump for a succession of towns, cities and civilizations, the Glidden Lawns were home to one of the most prestigious universities of its time. The ruins are there still, buried under tons of offal and waste, and can be accessed via a lone smokestack that still (barely) pokes above the mounded garbage. Those who've visited - and have had the pleasure of returning - speak breathlessly of bundles of wires as thick as your thumb, spun from gold, and studded with sapphires that seem to pulse with hidden light. They describe deep, thrumming engines and incredible heat; vast machines softly whirring in the dark. In hushed whispers, they tell of distant voices that seem to crawl around in the back of your skull, and an itching desire to go far, far away and never return."
Sister Lunette," The closing of the orphanage was considered by many a merciful thing. Already cool relations between the 'noble' races and their Orcish cousins had been exacerbated by the outbreak of the Patron Wars, and overnight, donating to the 'Half-Orc Orphan's Fund' went from high-profile charity to social suicide. As money ran low and the front moved closer, the working clergy found themselves in an impossible situation. Many fled from (or in some cases, to) the fighting, leaving only a handful of nuns to care for, protect and feed nearly two hundred children. With tensions fraying and food running low, Sister Lunette made the 'hard decision'; in the early morning, just after prayers, she methodically slaughtered almost sixty half-orc children with a pair of pruning shears. The other nuns, hesitant to turn their friend over to the authorities, restrained her with yards of knotted bed linens, and locked poor Lunette in the farthest corner of the cellar. A fictional Orc barbarian was named as the perpetrator of the heinous (if understandable) crime, and soon after the remaining orphans were dispersed and the orphanage shuttered. In one last, merciful act, the departing nuns unlocked the cellar, leaving Sister Lunette to the mercy of their God."
"Haverplam, Chitterdale and Jormungroth, Attorneys at Law"," The facade is stately, the furnishings in impeccable taste. Most visitors never make it past the anteroom, where a fetchingly (if professionally) dressed succubus holds court in airy resplendence. She wields her power delicately, casting a judgemental eye on all those approach the massive double doors that lead deeper into the office, bidding them speak on what foul treachery led them there. Few can bear her scrutiny for long, and those who recant, or gibber, or collapse are led through a side door to be put out into a side alley, where they can slink away in shame. But the ones who weather her scrutiny - her litany of incisive questions and scathing analysis - are bid welcome to pass through the threshold, where an impish paralegal waits to lead them down an impossibly long, impressively ornate hallway. At the end, in a font hewn from ebony, under a fountain of putrid blood, awaits the trimulative. With a single bloated body between them, each head lolls sickly from its own withered neck, speaking in turn in singsong madness. A single voice speaks from somewhere behind them, 'We'd be delighted to take your case! Now, if you'll join us in the pool, we'll discuss our nominal fee...'"
"Gert, the Click-Clack Girl"," She taps her stick as she wanders, humming tunelessly with the beat. Where she goes, the world gives way - crowds part, alleys widen, puddles dry. Cobbles straighten as she treads on them; doors open as she raps on them; dogs lie down and die as she peers at them with her pearly, unseeing eyes. She's just a girl, they say, begging alms on the cruel streets... and yet, still. Still. You don't cross Gert. You give her your silvers as she passes (click-clack, click-clack), then move on with your life. Nevermind that in some light, you can see the cruel-looking things that gather and gambol in her wake, like snub-nosed lemurs with eyes full of glittering hate, but not at all like that also. Like sharpened shadows, perhaps. No? Like wheels, turning and turning with increasing speed? You don't think about those. You don't look backwards, and you don't think too hard about the ale your silvers would have bought you, 'cause they weren't really yours, anyhow. They were Gert's, and you were keeping them safe for her, that's right. Poor girl. Poor, sweet, precious (click-clack oh gods oh fuck oh gods click-clack), precious, lovely, sweet, wonderf...GRKKKKKKKKkkkkkkkkkkkk"
Kral," Kral is a kindly appearing older man, who runs an orphanage to care for the city's many poor orphans. But, in truth he's a nasty, vicious Goblin sorceror who alters his image to appear kindly and older so the cityfolk don't question his care of the children. Because the care he provides the orphans is to have them kneel and pray to their god while he puts a barrage of magic missles into the back of their heads. Then he teleports himself and the corpse to a butcher shop in a goblin town, where the butcher pays him quite handsomely for each child produced, as the meat is quite popular with the town's residents. Kral himself looks upon it as doing both places a favor. As the city doesn't care about the children, as rarely does anyone follow up to find out what happened to a child they drop off. When they do, he tells them that the child was adopted by a wandering family of caravaneers and could be anywhere by now."
Bastion the Last," Having seen his entire production batch smashed to bits in whatever war they were built for, the Warforged known as Bastion decided he would not suffer the same fate. Half-mad with terror and obsessed with his quest for indestructibility, he now attacks outlying towns to abduct their blacksmiths and wizards. This serves the dual purpose of finding new craftsman who can add on to his ever-growing defenses, and putting said defenses to the test; although he is motivated by fear, Bastion constantly seeks to ascertain his invulnerability in battle. His many layers of armor and magical enhancements weigh him down so much that he prefers to go about on all fours, and Bastion's original shape is almost entirely obscured by his new, hulking form."
The Lord of Salt," Not undead in the traditional sense, the dessicated body of Malchaster the Transmuter is conserved by the elemental spirit of salt he bound to himself. The century-long struggle between wizard and barely controlled spirit has driven both of them quite insane, and while nobody knows exactly what the Lord of Salt wants, sea-captains agree that the sight of his driftwood castle floating on the horizon is a bad news."
The Croaking Man," Appears as a disgustingly frail old man, constantly hunched over. It wears little to no clothing, and is covered with sores and pimples. Instead of a neck, it has a large flabby sack (like a frog's) that droops all the way down to its feet. It dwells in the deepest, most abandoned forests where civilization is far away. Its origins and motivations are unknown, but it dwells on one thing: to cause terror. The large sack on its neck houses a lung of poison that it secretes into the nearby atmosphere. One whiff of the gas, and the inhaler starts hallucinating: gigantic monsters chase them, they fall down a hole to hell, or their friends betray them. The hallucinations seem longer than they actually are. No harm is done to the person during the hallucinations, but almost all victims commit suicide or go insane due to terror. In their brief moments of lucidity, when their minds resist the poison, victims report a horrific croaking, and see a frail man perched on a tree fanning a large sack before they fall into another living nightmare."
The Spindle," A skeletal figure with incredibly long limbs, covered by a loose skin blotted with gasping mouths. The Spindle moves like a spider above the treeline of ancient forests, moving only at night as to not be spotted. When it finds prey (always someone camping or sleeping for the night), it perches itself at the top of the treeline and droops down its incredibly long arms above the entrance to the victims tent. From a distance, the creature blends in with the branches of the tree. Then, while the victim is inside, its many mouths begin to simulate sounds of a far away celebration or party. Once the victim moves out to investigate, the Spindle stabs the creature and absorbs its skin into its skeletal frame, adding another mouth to its collection, and another voice to tempt travelers with."
The Dredge," After a powerful storm at sea, debris from the bottom of the ocean often float to the surface for sailors to claim or avoid. Most sailors can recognize a normal salvage: seaweed, wood scraps, maybe a fragment from an old ship. However, the most seasoned sailors will tell the deckhands to never claim anything from the waves in fear of the Dredge. if you ever see a locked chest, a woman screaming for help, or something that seems too good to be true, it's often the Dredge's tendrils tempting a young sailor to his death. Appearing after storms, the mess of tentacles and tendrils called the Dredge displays a tempting display of salvage that it collects: the items often are exactly what sailors want, sometimes even personal items. It's unknown where the creature gets these items, but as soon as anyone attempts to grab one, even if they use a hook or net, the tendril reels them into the deep with amazing force. None of them ever return."
The Blood Merchant," Most cannot stomach the varied sacs and chambers that comprise the back of this creature, filled with the lifeblood of countless beings. While most often patronized by vampires and such bloodthirsty ilk, morally bankrupt mages also peruse the beast's services. It barters in some of its gains with those that would provide it benefit, but saves the choice liquids for itself. Its multiple needle-like proboscides twitch in anticipation of it's next meal."
The Flying Madness," The Mind Flayers desire to consume the minds of the living, but there are minds so powerful even the Illithids are mad to attempt them. Whether it was a single Flayer or a group, it will never be known, but they attempted to eat the mind of an ancient Gold Dragon. The might of dragons is not that of mortals, especially those old enough to remember the making of the world. But the Illithids are in their own way beyond the world, and instead of consuming the dragon's mind or being consumed in turn, a horrid fusion resulted. The Dragon, its original name now forgotten, has misshapen tentacles sprouting from where its face once was, like fungal bodies. Where its eyes should be are suppurating pits, forever dripping corrupting slime. Its once lustrous hide is now pocked and rotted. It flies randomly across the land, shrieking a terrible silent scream that is heard in the minds of people miles away. Anyone who falls under the shadow of its wings is driven irrevocably mad."
The Cogs," Long ago, a Dwarven king called for the creation of a Wonder, a mighty walking fortress that could bring war to the most distant enemy. The mightiest and most skilled artisans worked for ten generations, until the castle was complete. Taking the form of an enormous Dwarf, it could stride across rivers and smash through castle walls with ease. However, they made it too well. The complex mechanisms inside it, designed to allow it to repair itself, began to leech minerals from the rocks themselves, and eventually subsumed the Dwarves who dwelt inside it to become part of its mechanism. It is named after the tiny automata it creates, that form the first sign of its coming. Tiny things made of cogs swarm ahead of it, scouring the land of everything - animal, vegetable, or mineral. Everything is ripped apart into its component parts and conveyed back to the main fortress, now a bloated monstrosity of metal and stone. Inside, organic matter entwines around cog and wheel, forming a hideous fusion of meat and metal. Left to itself, it will scour the world clean of everything until it sits alone on the earth."
The Eating Slick," Summer is often a time of relaxation and ease, at least for those few that can afford it. One of the greatest pastimes of summer, then, is swimming, often in a lake, reservoir, or similar water source. In one such lake, secluded and idyllic, lives the Eating Slick. It is difficult to see, even under the best conditions; it manifests as a silent black circle that forms seamlessly to the water of its lake, not unlike an oil slick. Appearance is where the similarities end. The Eating Slick moves under its own power, and is utterly predatorial. It allows unsuspecting swimmers to move out into deeper waters, and once there, it consumes them. Whole. Its surface is like that of an Ooze, dissolving and searing flesh on contact, and with each eaten victim it grows. We are lucky that it lives in a lake; should it ever reach the ocean, there's no telling what horrors could result."
The Unhappy Blob," It was caught in the dark recesses of a cave and transported to the fortress where it was put into a deep pit. It wasn't happy about that, but then these strange creatures that caught it started throwing other such creatures down into the pit for it to eat, and that made the blob happy. It was quite happy for quite sometime, as the creatures would gather on the edge of the pit, make strange noises and then throw a usually still struggling creature much like themselves down into the pit for the blob to happily spend time digesting. But, then one day the Blob noticed that the creatures had stopped coming, and had stopped throwing him food. This made the Blob unhappy, and so the Blob decided to ooze his way up the sides of his pit and go in search of food. Which is really too bad for that nearby town."
The Lady of Justice," In a small mountain town there is a bronze statue of a woman holding an olive branch in one hand and a sword in the other. Before this woman is a bronze scale. Sitting in the basin opposite this woman are four small bronze men, sitting in the basin before this woman is empty space. Whenever a man or woman commits a crime, they are brought before the Lady of Justice, and put their head on the scales to be judged. Through strange mechanisms their sins are weighed. If they are innocent, the men will fall and the Lady offers them an olive branch. If they are guilty, the Lady swings her mighty blade and slays them. The angrier the townsfolk, the more vigorous the Lady strikes. A bloodthirsty mob throws a fugitive at her feet, willing the scales to tip. The criminal's head meets the scales and the men raise in judgement. The Lady tears away her face to deliver the kind justice the people truly crave."
The Ashen Legion," The Ashen Legion is a force of conquest in it's purest form. It has no king and no nation. The grey forms of men in armor from a time long since passed leave a thick cloud of choking ash wherever they march. People in their path of all races and creeds are cut-down without thought. Their mute commanders mull over the tactics to take whatever happens to be in their path, issuing commands only the grey soldiers seem to hear. They ignore any other attempts at communication, dumb to reason and curses alike. The Ashen Legion burns cities to the ground, the only resource they value the ash of things that men have built. Felled soldiers return to the cloud, where they accumulate into new recruits, just as strong as the last generation. They hold territory simply for the sake of holding it, and they expand their borders with little rhyme or reason. Cities are razed, resources are ignored. Even though they march without purpose, their commanders are wily, and will win battles without pressing the Legion's immortality. Kingdoms are eradicated, ways of life are destroyed, women and children slain without thought as the Legion marches forward. And at the heart of their holdings an angry god lays slain, bleeding a pool tepid, grey War."
Resnin the Seer," Best not to make deals with the devil, of course, you don't always know it's the devil you're dealing with. Resnin the Seer is not what you'd call monstrous by first glance but if you ever see behind the veil, your mind just might come loose. He resides in the lesser part of town, living above his small shop where he grants healing, potions, and untoward favors in return for a small favor from you. Somehow the things he gives you always leaves you coming back for more and the favors he asks grow darker. Your soul is going to be his eventually, just give him time. Then you can join the others that are trapped, pushing forward beneath his gnarled olive green skin, unable to escape this horrid fate."
Ol' Clayven," Clayven was once an ordinary elf like you and I, or so the stories say. But Clayven, unlike most elves, was a greedy sort. He gathered everything he could and never let a treasure leave his grasp. As his horde grew, he had to grow bigger and bigger homes to store it all. He also had to create more and more guardians to keep others out, until he was eventually alone with only this constructs. Clayven grew more and more paranoid and mad going so far as to accuse his own constructed guardians of theft, eventually destroying all of them. Left to his own devices, he slowly grew malnourished, afraid to leave his treasures unguarded. With time, his body seemed to wither away and his home did as well. Those who have gotten close to his home, have been chased off by a nearly naked, pale, hunch backed creature with one large eye and long claws on each hand. As they ran, they swore they heard it scream, ""Mine!"""
The Tortured Man," Certainly the tales invented by mothers to keep their children inside at night, the tale of the Tortured Man is told at bedtime when the lights are low. It is said that a man, down on his luck and hungry, entered illegally, the estate of a mad wizard to steal some food. Unfortunately the man was caught and drug down into the basement laboratory. Not seen for weeks on in, the man was presumed dead and lost. Now, each night, a horrific creature roams within the walls of the mad wizard's home. Its eyes gouged out and its mouth sewn shut. Where it had hands now only two metal claws and its legs removed below the knee. Outside the wall you can hear the clank, shuffle, and scraping as it patrols."
leg," but if you ever see behind the vale vale Those two aside, I loved Resnin the Seer and the Tortured Man."
The Green Caves," Within the foothills of Mount Glamoral lies a cave entrance mostly obscured by shrubbery. From the entrance a sickly green light can be seen welling up from further inside. If someone goes deeper into the cave, as the tunnels bury deeper into the earth, past a glowing green barrier of sigils lies a race of misshapen abominations. The spawn of a pit fiend and whatever wildlife once lived here, and it is said that at the deepest depths lies their ruler, that same fiend, who nurses a bitter hatred for the light above and those born in it."
The Breegard Gamekeeper," Hunters and poachers know to stay out of the forest between Breegard and the mountain, but careless travellers are not so lucky. Those who make it into town will be told the story of the Gamekeeper. He was once employed by the local Lord to ensure a good stock of animals were available for the hunt and did his job so diligently that a deity recognised his labours and granted him an unnaturally long life. That was centuries ago, but far from feeling blessed the Gatekeeper is now insane, wretched and wracked by the years. He defends the forest from all intruders and has spent the centuries breeding his hounds into monstrous beasts which now only passingly resemble dogs. Now he seeks to extend his dominion to all the forests of the world, capturing and twisting any travelers he can find to serve his aims."
Alumar," Alumar, the beast of poisoned light, was an elemental who once shone with the gentleness of sunshine. But in seeking to enhance her powers, she became a monster of sickness and death. Her light burns living creatures, and even fleeting exposure leads to fatal illnesses. Folk who encounter her lose hair and teeth and their skin erupts with blisters. Alumar believes that she can leach away her powers by inflicting them on any creatures she encounters, and hopes that if she spreads her light among enough creatures, she can one day return to the creature of mild light she once was."
Kain," Kain is as old as mankind itself, created by a handful of Gods as their would-be Assassin. Forged as a Demi God, the soul of a Dragon, and the body of a Devil. Kain is a Godslayer, accomplishing this by seeking out worshipers of his target God and slaying them in masses to weaken the God's power as Faith is the resource for a God's strength and sets their hierarchy within the heavens. Kain is genderless and uncaring for mortal wants and needs and seeks only to rid the heavens of his former masters. Kain wields a colossal Scythe that opens portals to other planes/dimensions and makes wounds near impossible to heal from. There's a laundry list of powers, abilities, and feats Kain has, but if you want to use this character you're free to do what you want (but you may PM to ask as well). With picture! http://orig12.deviantart.net/be32/f/2010/350/1/7/174a0e5e16c2f90f441ad9c0761faae6-d350x51.jpg The picture is mine, I commissioned it and it's copyrighted. Fair use applies still anyway. Have fun with it, just don't sell it. (My personal version the left has all red skin as it's supposed to)"
"Mercer Leon, CEO Leon Trading"," The brand of Leon Trading is known to most adventurers as one of just enough quality to get by. Its rise to fortune and the mainstream was extremely fast, and somewhat suspicious. It is a common joke amongst the denizens of the Capital that Leon has some sort of oracular foreknowledge that prevents him from making a bad trade. They were more right than they would ever know."
Kathera the Vengeful," Once upon a time, there were two lovers, joined in heaven and earth. A star spirit and a moonfolk, their commitment to each other was known throughout the plane. Kathera knew of her imminent mortality, but wished to stay by Aquila's side for eternity. Using ancient magic, she sealed her soul into her masterwork, a silver sword of finest craft. They were together, but the star spirit found his feelings did not possess the longevity that Kathera's did, and he cast the sword aside. The spirit of the moonfolk overpowers those who wield her blade, forcing them to seek out and destroy her traitorous lover."
Malandrach of Many Devices," A dark elf who's quest to shift the world's political landscape from theocracy towards democracy forced him to take drastic measures, Malandrach achieved lichdom hundreds of years ago and has been gathering power ever since. Each attempt to realize his goal has failed, simply requiring more power. His research team, headed by the ingenious Doctor Cyrilla, develops creative new uses of the world's available technology, a notable one being a revolving barrel that allows quick access to different wands. Though his actions have in the past been towards the evil end of the spectrum, he is not evil for its own sake, instead hoping that this phase is a means to an end."
Archangel Avalon," The Forces (capital F) are not really gods in the same way that mayonnaise isn't an instrument. They are divine in a completely different direction than the world's pantheon, almost quantifying their strength with imaginary numbers. Most of them do not interact with the material plane, and to fight one is as much a folly as to declare war on a forest, or the sky. Avalon, one of the weakest of their number, is the only one that will even reveal itself. Its body isn't entirely contained within the three dimensions we are used to, resembling the biblical descriptions of angels. It appears to those who cross heaven and earth seeking to challenge it, almost like an immature child wanted to demonstrate its power."
The Black Helm of Sunbury Vale," Usually, things such as the Black Helm take shape in a wizard's laboratory on a dark and stormy night. The Black Helm, however, was created by an unremarkable blacksmith in the small hamlet of Sunbury Vale. The blacksmith had crafted a fine suit of armour for a noble to wear in an upcoming tournament, and an apprentice of the local arm of the Mage's College had been tasked with enchanting it. Unfortunately for all involved, his spell went awry - the armour, instead of receiving a defensive charm, received a life of its own. The now-animated plate mail attacked the blacksmith for berating the apprentice mage, and killed him. The mage was put to death by the inhabitants of the village - this enraged the armour [a Helmed Horror], causing it to wipe out the village. It's twisted and damaged consciousness began to reflect the fault for the mage's death not only on the villagers, but on all it encountered. The Black Helm now wanders the countryside, gradually roaming farther and farther from Sunbury Vale in order to sate its thirst for vengeance against those who it thinks killed its creator and master."
The Reacher," No one really knows what the Reacher is, or where and when it came from. Some say that its kind originate in the interstitial spaces between multiverses. To say that they exist there would be a mistake - no one knows if existence as we perceive it is possible there, even as a concept. What little is known about the Reacher is based on myth, speculation, and anecdote. Physically, it appears as a bright blue skein of energy stretched across a human skeleton - perhaps the Reacher is a parasitic organism still possessing the body of a long-dead host, or perhaps it's merely the Reacher's way of normalising itself to the Material Plane and existence as beings of this particular multiverse perceive it. The most interesting facet of the Reacher's existence is its interactions with matter. It has been hypothesised that the Reacher exists in five dimensions in this universe - the three spatial dimensions we can perceive, the temporal dimensions, and a fourth spatial dimension that is incapable of being interacted with by any being in this universe. This means the Reacher is able to pass through any form of matter directed against it, and even alter time as it pertains to individual objects. Indeed, the Reacher's name comes from a memorable incident in the 893rd year of the 4th Era, when it reached through the walls of a box that had been magically sealed by the six Archmages of the Adamantine Court, and in the process aging it into dust. Should the Reacher ever turn its azure gaze upon you, know that there is no escape - it is everywhere and nowhere, everywhen and never."
The Lupenwald Fiend," Deep in the heart of the massive Lupenwald forest, the trees all bend their branches towards a central towering pillar of volcanic glass. With the correct rituals, a little magic and an unwilling sacrifice, ancient oaken branches reach down and embrace the pillar's unfortunate victim. Then the Fiend rises. Eight and a half feet tall, it holds itself upright with four enormous, jointed branches sprouting from its lower back. The victim's body sways in the wind, little more than a warm moist shell for the Fiend. Soon people in nearby villages disappear, only to be found impaled on withered pine trees. The Fiend will not abandon its grim harvest till all the Lupenwald's trees may feed on blood and bone."
Barg Greenblood AKA Pukefist," Once the chieftain of several hundred goblins living under Rockbilt Mountain, Barg was content to run his little kingdom and get fat on the offerings of his kin. All that changed on the day a group of adventurers came into his cave, killing most of Barg's family and friends. The ""heroes"" attacked Barg in cold blood and left him for dead alongside a green ooze that had infiltrated the caves. The lingering magic from the spells unleashed in the cave reacted with Barg's hand and the dead ooze it was resting in. The reaction had a strange effect: When he awoke after the fight, Barg's arm was no longer flesh and bone, but rather had become a limb made of ooze. Fueled by fury and anger, Pukefist (as his legend is known among local goblins), ambushes humans and elves alone on the roads near Rockbilt. He uses his ooze-arm to choke his victims, and in some cases will even use it to melt the skin off their faces. All that was once Barg, happy, content and full of food has disappeared and a thin, angry, mutated mess is all that remains."
Sek'ril," War is oftentimes a horrific, monstrous thing, and that's exactly what war creates. The embodiment of death and decay, Sek'ril overtakes the lifeless corpses of war-torn victims. Most often seen in piles of bodies, Sek'ril slowly feeds off of them, growing in strength. He speaks not in words, but with psychic abilities and cares for only himself. Sek'ril desires nothing more than a meal, and if that means controlling weak minded men and women then so be it. At his peak levels of strength, Sek'ril has been know to cobble together animated corpse golems to his bidding, as well imbuing conscious thought into corpses, creating horrendous zombified servants."
"Fargith, The Giver of Dreams"," It is said that there lives a roiling mound of flesh in the sewers beneath the city which possesses a malevolent mind. It kills two kinds of people. The first are blue eyed children. Some people who has seen the monstrosity says that it is incorporating the eyes into its own form. Forming them into a facsimile of a face; multi-faceted blue eyes, blue-eye-teeth, blue-eye-freckles. However, that is not all the eyes. Some are also found hanging on strings at random spots around the sewer. The second kind of people it kills are those that touch those eyes. Those people and their entire family. So, if you see a small, child-sized blue eye, hanging on a string, seeming like it is watching you, don't touch it. Just leave it alone. Said to be perhaps the most lethal assassin in the world. A figure wrapped in a hooded cloak of darkest black, beneath which appears to be only shadow. This is held up by those who proclaim him to have such abilities as being able to pass through barred windows and underneath locked doors. When the Shadow Assassin is hired, his victim is invariably found suffocated to death a few days later. But it is the payment that the Shadow Assassin demands that sets him apart: the person you love the most, passed by your hand to his. Nobody knows what happen to these loved ones when they are whisked away by the assassin. In the middle of the desert of Yum lies the City of Dreams. Some would say that it is ruled by a demon, but the demon himself and the people who seek him would say that it is served by a demon. For those that dwell in the City of Dreams have their every desire fulfilled by the demon. The resurrection of loved ones, a life in opulent luxury, the ability to kill and torture without risk or retribution. Newcomers to the city find it a kaleidoscope of dreams from the noble to the decadent to the horrifying. But all citizen are under the protection of the demon. By the power of the demon no citizen is allowed to experience any want or hurt or discomfort. Once a newcomer has accepted the demons pact and become a citizen, they never leave. Why would they?"
Unodoche," Cursed by some ancient magic to live in transition between the material and inner elemental planes, Unodoche has no clear form; to see him is to see a distortion. Materially, he is a giant tentacled mass of flesh and muscle with no distinct head, rather various eyes, nostrils and mouths are cut randomly into the rubbery flesh of his body. As he moves he passes between planes so that only cross sections of his corporeal form are visible, and so to any who behold him he appears to flicker in and out of existence like flames do, only where orange and red transparencies would be, solid fragments of muscle and bone and sanguine fluid phase in and out of sight, morphing and deforming, as though being sliced apart and healing over and over again. Tortured by his horrific existence, he has grown hateful and violent. In the vast desert dunes of the Dead Empty where he is known to roam, the native wanderers say to keep your wits about you, for Unodoche is cruel and devours all who meet him."
The Bilker of the Belt," Gauul, known to any who pass through the belt of fens south of Fort Gloomheart, is a giant fetid frog with a taste for wealth. His breath is so acerbic that being within 30 feet of one of Gauul's infamously nauseating belches will cause acid blisters and melt away flesh. He has a close-knit gang of troglodyte flunkies who collect for him seekers of highly appraised artifacts claiming to have them for sale. They are then liberated of their gold and fed into Gauul's giant gullet where he consumes them gleefully."
Let's meet these soulmongers and destroyers!," Powerful demons and devils make excellent really bad guys. Fiendish villains can cloak themselves in complicated schemes, hide behind the flesh of a mortal, and act on impulses and desires that mortals cannot comprehend. I'll post a few examples (which may or may not have drawn inspiration from here)."
"Plyrr, the Shard"," Plyrr dwells in the periphery of events, preferring to milk small travesties where others wreak terror on larger scales. Still, his presence is feared by the wee - many a pixie has come home to find their family pinned to a hawthorn branch, their wings scattered in the underbrush below. He appears to mortals as a small bird, with grasping, long fingered hands where his feet ought to be, and his song is said to give mild indigestion to the young and weak at heart."
"Sluuth, the Carrion Legate"," Rare amongst Devils, Sluuth is an honorable foe, hewing closely to an ancient (and staggering complex) personal code that governs his every action. Even rarer - his legion is a mixed one, made up of fiends, awakened monsters, mortal races, fallen celestials and countless others. He is not to be trifled with, and has been known to put entire kingdoms to the sword to prove a point, honor notwithstanding."
"Hgrph, the Seamstress"," The peak she guards is a lonely one, and she spends her long twilit days circling it on wings hewn from shards of ebon and flame. While most pass under her shadow unscathed, the unlucky few who catch her notice are rarely seen again. The hermits who dwell on the edge of her quotidian gyre advise travelers not to think hungry, lustful, or prideful thoughts, lest Hgrph take notice."
"Valnirith, the Crucible"," Valnirith was a Paladin in life, drawing on a vast well of personal fortitude in her pursuit of justice and righteousness. But when the minor God she served forfeited their glory in exchange for a throne in the hells, the power she had wielded was ripped from her. In her sorrow and terrible fury, she swore vengeance on her erstwhile master, descending into the pits to find him. She is quick to ally herself with those who will further her cause, but just as quick to cross those who run afoul of her paranoia."
"Maelfestryx, the Schemer"," Perpetually wandering amongst the mortals in the guise of a senile gnome, Maelfestryx randomly gifts travelers with small bobbles, trinkets, and gizmos that he uses to spy on the machinations of the world. He has gathered a vast repository of information, enough to blackmail a whole kingdom. His plans and motives at this time are uncertain, but when he finally makes his move you can expect that it's going to be a doozy."
"Geggomon, the Iron Toad"," Geggomon resembles a great muscular toad with the head of an ox. His massive stomach is filled to the brim with iron ore, hauled from the earth by his army of slaves in order to feed his insatiable appetite. What he eats in iron ore is eventually shat out as steel, stronger than any forged by mortal hands."
"Ebrudaal, the Bone Tyrant"," In life, Ebrudaal was a celestial prince; a great two-headed eagle with golden feathers. Cast out of the heavens for some sin long-forgotten, he spends his days in the depths of hell, now undead and in skeletal form. His rage at his punishment fuels a passion for violence and torture that he is all too happy to inflict on anything around him - even other great demons give him wide berth."
"Vak, the Void Shadow"," Vak's visible form is that of a man-shaped vortex or void; a hole in the universe from which erupts the wild winds of his hatred. It is said that the lightest graze from his finger is enough to utterly erase a being from existence. The only material thing able to touch Vak without being obliterated is the diadem that rests upon his brow, rumored to grant its wearer true immortality."
Yissik the Friendless," Yissik's passion is the perversion of loyalty and the twisting of alliances. He finds the most offensive state of the mortal world is the co-operation which some foolish souls call 'natural'. Wherever mortals stand together, wherever common ground is found, wherever differences are put aside, Yissik will turn his gaze - and begin his plans. All too often they succeed as the mightiest of bonds may be broken by the simplest of whispers, if they fall in the right ears. His mortal form is fluid, though it remains simple and gregarious, full of the seeming of goodwill and bonhomie."
"Fzar H'kat, the last necrophore"," Fzar H'kat has always felt anger and ressentment for dragons, which had slaughtered most of his race several thousand years ago. The necrophore used to be one of the most powerful empire on the land and ruled with an iron fist, until they declared war to the emerald dragons. Necrophores are thought by most to be just a myth, as they haven't been seen aboveground in a long while. These cunning creatures have a distinctly creepy physique, with twenty long spider-like black legs under a green reptilian torso. Their small white eyes aren't of much use and they instead rely on their bat-like ears to navigate the tunnels where they live. A few decades ago, Fzar's village was found by a scout of the emerald dragons and subsequently destroyed. Everyone in his community was murdered, including him. Fortunately for him, he was a fervent cleric of one of the gods of death, which granted him a new life and some powerful necromancy abilities. In exchange, he has to garner 200,000 souls before dying again, or his own soul will be sent to the shadow realm and locked forever."
The seventeen bastards," Born of the union between a tricky gnome and several goblin widows, these seventeen half-goblin are especially dangerous. They have the savage cruelty of their mother but the cunning wits of their father, as well as a thirst for adventure that not a lot of goblins usually have. They look distinctively goblin, except for their orange hair which comes from their father. Quwip is the biggest and meanest one of the bunch, a large muscled half-goblin wielding two small waraxes and ruthlessly cutting down anything in his path. His fellow half-brothers and half-sisters are just as dangerous as he his and include talented sorcerers, agile thieves and battle-crazed barbarians. They managed to tame a pack of worgs which they use as mount."
"Kor, the fallen prince"," A red dragonborn, banished from his kingdom for trying to overtake his father's throne. He wanders the land, searching for wealth and glory to eventually build his own empire and army in order to take back the kingdom that he believes is his. He will stop at nothing to achieve his goal and would gladly kill any number of innocent lives if it could bring him a step closer to his throne. He would probably sell his soul to Lucifer himself in exchange for his throne."
"Juliet, the kyton mother"," Killed during a particularly painful sacrifice, Juliet's soul was taken by the devils of the darkest depth of hell, where she became a deformed and monstrous kyton. In time, she ended up becoming a remarkably mean devil herself, gaining pleasure in causing as well as receiving pain. She eventually amassed a cult of devilish followers and even sent some expeditions back in the mortal realms to bring back new corpses and souls. A group of paladin came down to her realm to stop her after one too many expedition and although they eliminated a good bunch of her followers, she eventually defeated them all. Before consuming their soul, she forced herself on the leader of the paladins' team, which resulted 9 months later in a kyton-spawn tiefling. She loved her son so much and it broke one of her hearts when he fled to the mortal realms at age 13. She has been searching for him ever since, sending devil spies behind him in the world of men. She will stop at nothing to bring him back in order to give him the punishment that he deserve, no matter how many souls she has to destroy in her path."
"Ghelia, the tormented"," Ghelia can take many form in our world and every single of them cause mishief. She walks the land in search of lives to ruin. Either by destroying crops, reputation, marriages, companies, guilds or kingdoms, she strives to destroy everyone's joy in life and reason to live. She has been doing it for so long that she doesn't even remember why and she doesn't even take pleasure from doing it anymore. She simply does it because it's what she has always done. She hasn't been back in Hell for so long that she doesn't even remember what her true form looks like."
"Bashkatet, also known as Hilderoy the cruel"," Hilderoy is the name of his human form. A bearded man with an eyepatch and a wooden leg, Hilderoy leads an armada of pirates that show no mercy and enjoy throwing people down at the ""sharks"". But Hilderoy is not human. His true form ressemble a enormous lamprey with twelve pairs of fins, that can stick his mouth to the bottom of a ship and wreck it from below. An army of smaller similar demons follow his ships along and wait patiently for the corpses of their master's fallen ennemies to be thrown from the side of the boat. If you see Hilderoy's flag approaching, abandoning your ship and jumping into the water is probably the worst thing you can do, for a quick death by sword is preferable to being eaten alive."
He Who Walks Behind," A fiend so foul and devious it managed to shed its true name so as to never be a slave again. Instead, this devil serves as a patron to several powerful houses across the multiverse taking a single first born warlock when they come of an age of use. Then it sends the father on a suicide mission to help further its plans and rid itself of a loose end. Trailing behind, whispering, demanding, empowering, forcing a hand to some knowable goal HWWB is a master manipulator. This being is so potent it can even infest anything around its slave with a portion of its essence ensuring that it can never be totally destroyed."
"Tychnazreht, of the Warp"," This entity is so profane it warps reality around it and even those who look upon it. Longing to reach the prime material and forge a dominion of its own, it throws a net far and wide so as to grab the attention of any sensitive enough to the demon's call. Hence, most worlds hold a cult or other group dedicated to bringing their master through."
"Melika, the Mistress of Torment"," Melika, often called the Mistress of Torment, has been hard at work harvesting souls hoping to purchase a place in the infernal high court. She takes delight in tempting souls to gluttony and over-indulgence just so she can take things away when it suits her. She enjoys screaming and beautiful music, particularly tragic songs of death and sadness. Her sadism is only outstripped by her ambition, and the safest course of action with Melika is to avoid her schemes altogether."
"Zelyria, the Flame Maiden"," Zelyria the Flame Maiden is a demonic being with a strong connection to Elemental Fire. She is fond of dragons and burnt bones. She just wants to watch the world burn, espousing the power and might that only destructive fire can unleash. If she has any plans or desires beyond the destruction of all creation, they are beyond my capacity to comprehend."
"Kalex, the Eater of Heroes"," Kalex is a potent shadow demon who styles himself as the Eater of Heroes. He loves bringing mighty warriors low by digging up their darkest secrets and using those secrets to exploit them to meet his own needs. He takes great interest in magical mysteries and odd lore. His schemes are complex, spanning continents and centuries. Some scholars believe he has had a hand in the fall of more than one of the great empires of the past."
"Gujerikk, Lord of the Blood Pits"," One of the most prolific soul collectors in the Hells, Gujerikk is an enormous being with skin of scorched crimson and curved black horns. He rules over a small domain known as the Blood Pits where he personally torments many of the souls he collects. Scholars attribute the Tragedy of King Berend to madness, but many superstitious Northerners believe that Gujerikk's scheming had a part in the horrific tale. Many of these claimants have been haunted by dreams of their loved ones suffering in a place that matches the only known description of the Blood Pits."
"Gobbluth, The Tricky Devil"," Gobbluth is a tall, handsome fiend, with a winning smile and neatly kept dark hair. He's not physically impressive, but he carries himself with confidence, and he thinks you should be impressed by his every word and every illusion he creates. Relying on his wicked good looks and his talent for illusions, Gobbluth's steadily seducing his way up the hierarchy in the Hells, and has made it as far as being a minor attendant in infernal high court. Perhaps, ""minor attendant"" is a stretch—he's a squatter. He snuck into the court and spends most of his time hidden in a large cupboard in the kitchens, slipping out to work his tricks on the low-ranking, female-identifying members of the court."
Ohnalt," Bubbling up from pits of black shadow and malcontent, the Ohnalt likens himself as a Dark God. As a manipulator of men, Ohnalt binds himself to the feeble-minded, such as children and elderly, and sets them upon their loved ones. Should Ohnalt be extricated from his victims he retreats to his lair, Abraxas, leaving a convenient portal in his wake. Should those heroes be foolish enough to follow, he toys with their delusions of adventure, presenting them challenges and traps and treasure, in some twisted game only he could dream."
"Dorkhulhu, Goat-Merchant"," Dorkhulhu has committed the greatest deception of all, appearing simply as some pagan god of trade to gypsy followers and bohemian merchants. He's become a popular entity to some, as tributes to him are made by trading and selling magical artifacts with adventurers. Gold that ends up in his followers possession causes his power to swell, and his favorite treasures all hold some deep connection to his realm. He schemes to draw the holders of his artifacts to the realm of Abracadabra, where he hopes to pit them against each other in a battle royale for amusement and coin."
"Praelix, Fiend of Battle"," All Devils have their own specialities and favourite targets for temptation, and for Praelix it is the battlefield that most readily draws him to the mortal plane. Unusually among the scholarly Phistophilus, Praelix loves to engage in discussions of strategy and tactics and will even don his custom leather armor (though best not to ask WHAT leather) and ride out on occasion. Some Diabolists consider Praelix's preference for claiming the souls of warriors to be a sign of intellectual weakness, a misapprehension Praelix himself readily encourages. Jovial and helpful, he affects the manners of a country gent - he even has a drawing room with weapons mounted on the wall. Each one is bloody and broken, and each is wrapped in a contract."
"Naim'haera, Hateful Spearmaiden"," A fixture of goliath myth and superstition, Naim'haera is the Diabolical Dame of Dishonor, and a brutally effective witch-devil. She often appears to weaker, less capable goliath, offering them power and prowess at a price. Her fee is always the same: the death of one's own family."
Mordryn Wintersgrasp," A demon, posing as a line of kings, each male descendant remarkably similar to the last. The secret to this demon's ability to maintain a stable kingdom for so long is his taste in chaos; rather than give in to gibbering madness and lose his playtoys in a month or two, King Wintersgrasp uses his influence to destabilize the entire political climate for miles around, always coming out thick as thieves with the winning side."
The White Whispers," Less of a single demon than a wholesale legion of them, the White Whispers are the single greatest danger to travelers in a particular area of high desert. Each demon is bound to the shape of a single snowflake, but when whipped up by winds or stirred up by the passing of an unwitting traveler, they form a maelstrom miles wide, full of the howling and horror of Pandemonium itself. With the right wind, they could create a swathe of frozen death and atrocity across entire continents."
"Hallyx, the Viceborne Star"," A devil of vast power of influence, made more terrible by the fact that nobody knows his or her true identity or location. The name ""Hallyx"" might simply be a title appropriated by one or many devils, or an actual name of an unknown being. All that can be known for sure is this: if you dig deep enough into the true roots of corruption and vice in this world, you will find your way back to one name."
Grena Akssah," The primal fear of the dark and things that go bump in the night can be traced back in history to Grena's more whimsical days. Grena is an Oni who stays out of the spotlight. He is the puppetmaster of the world. Pulling strings in courts, kingdoms and towns with no telling where his influence ends. Using his natural ability to shapeshift he gains access to the most powerful people in the land and gains their trust. The reason for his longevity is unknown though it is most likely due to the large sum of knowledge acquired over his time spent collecting artifacts and among the educated. The one thing he cannot hide with his shapeshifting is the eye of vecna that he has replaced one of his eyes with. Most if not all of his shapeshifted forms wears an eyepatch or similar way of masking it and they all tend to hum. Very few if any people can actually guess at his existence in the world however every child is taught the Oni's Rhyme: Lock the door, blow out the light; The hungry oni haunts the night. Hide and tremble, little one; The oni wants to have some fun."
"Miasmus, The Creeping Hunger"," Appearing often as an attractive tiefling wreathed in a cloud of grasping purple fumes, Miasmus breaks the mold of most demons. Not content with other demons' blind madness, the Creeping Hunger is driven and focused by his demonic desires. He plans and schemes like the best of devils, but ever the rage and hunger lingers beneath, cresting to the surface when things don't go his way. Of particular interest to him is answering the call of warlocks seeking a pact with devils. When he presents himself as such, he provides maddeningly complex contracts and asks for little in return for access to his power, masquerading as the lawful entities the warlock has planned for. However, he devotes himself to twisting the warlock's goals to base consumption and destruction, culminating in the eventual ruin of the warlock and the acquisition of many souls for Miasmus."
"Malerus, the Man-Eater"," A massive centaur, covered head to hoof in thorned plate armor. A bloodthirsty warlord, but also a superstitious being, he believes that devouring the hearts of his enemies will imbue him with their strength. Hunger never sated, he and his barbaric tribe roam the land as a nomadic scourge that crushes opposition under hoof and hammer."
"Nurilla, the Stone-Mother"," A first glance at Nurilla would give off her vaguely humanoid form, however, a closer inspection would betray her shimmering snake-like lower body. Don't look too closely though, her beautiful face is framed by a writhing mass of snapping snakes and an off-glance in her direction could be enough to turn you to stone. A freak of nature, her nest lays in the center of a garden of petrified victims. She lives in constant pain, laying clutches upon clutches of sickly, fragile eggs, which spawn chittering collections of colossal cockatrice. The nearby river is tainted with her infectious influence, and the local settlements are constantly under siege by her oversized offspring."
The Beast of Brightmill," A seaside town, Brightmill's economy is heavily weighted in their fish market. However, a huge increase in missing persons cases have befallen the town as of late, and their economy has fallen into a depression as a result. A gargantuan Merrow, referred to as ""The Beast of Brightmill"" has been spotted on several occasions, lunging from the water's edge, and pulling people into the cloudy water. A well-fed creature, at nearly 15 feet long, many fisherman have lost their lives, trying foolishly to predict the Beast. The houses nearest the ocean have been abandoned, as huge claw marks line their doors and windows, and body parts won't stop washing up on the beach. Boats that are left near the docks are frequently missing, presumed to be either sunken or dragged off to sea by the creature. ""The Beast"" emanates an overwhelming aura of malicious intent, and some citizens see it as a punishment sent by the gods for the town's prosperity."
"Thom, Fiend-Lord of the Ordinary"," Wherever Thom appears, magic disappears. His fiendish nature sucks out the magic out of reality itself. Every spell with a duration just flickers and fades once he nears. Magical fires dim, animated golems break down, and enchanted swords become, well, just swords. Thom hates all that is out of his daily routine, which mainly consists of an ordinary peasant's routine, with no magic involved and he'll go to incredible lengths to make sure no one breaks his routine. Wizards, Warlocks and sorcerers beware."
"Nycrosh, Duke of the Dead"," Nycrosh is a small-time God of Death, who lures the souls from dying villagers into his own pocket dimension. His dimension is small, and only attracts the souls of specific areas, but he aspires to be a great god of death. Sitting rotting and decaying in his throne of bones, Nycrosh tries to make his afterlife the only afterlife."
The Unseen and The Unheard," Two fiendish brothers that respective dominion over the sense of sight and the sense of hearing. The Unseen can completely escape the eye, as if he was invisible, sneaking through busy streets unseen. The Unheard eludes the hearing, slithering through creeky mansions unheard. They're assassins for hire, but ask for more than just gold to complete their job."
The Sword of Rhaggash," Like many legendary swords, especially those stuck in rocks, the Sword of Rhaggash promises the wielder to be king. However, once someone removes it from it's stone seal, the sword's dark tendrils overtake the wielder and take it over as a host. Rhaggash, king of a kingdom long forgotten, takes over, and will stop at nothing before it reclaims it's long lost kingdom."
"U'rg, A'rg and I'rg, The Endless Debaters"," U'rg, A'rg and I'rg are the three fiends with severly clashing personalities, inhabiting a demonic host.. U'rg is the enslaver, and dreams of enslaving entire realms to supply him with luxuries. In battle, he tends to charge the strongest of his foes first. A'rg is the murderer, and dreams of a realm with bleak burned trees covered in innocent blood. In battle he goes after the weakest opponenst first. I'rg is the peacekeeper, and would love for everyone to just get along, and not fight for once. In battle, he's defensive, and tries to come to diplomatic compromise. Only one of them can be in control at the time, and they randomly take over from each other. If you listen very closely, you can hear the three argueing eternally in their collective head."
"Losum, False Hope", Losum is a powerful contract devil that approaches people in the most desperate of situations and offer them a way out in exchange for their soul. He works hard to make his quarry extremely happy and accomplished. When they've reached a peak in their happiness he rips it all away and delights in their pain and grief.
"Silas, the Vengeful", Silas is a devil that lives of pacts. He finds people who seek vengeance and helps them get it. He provides his contractees with a weapon that must be used to slay the targets so that he can claim their souls.
"Kraxan, Lord of Undoing", Kraxan was once the most powerful demon until the Order of the Iron Scales locked him into a book. Every page in the hefty book is a binding to keep him in place. That doesn't stop him from communicating with people who come near him. He's waiting for the day he can convince a fool to help free him.
"Baroup, the Eternal Torturer"," A being powerful enough to challenge Gods over dominance of the souls of the deceased, Baroup feeds with the pain and anguish he inflicts on the souls he snatches before passing on to the afterlife. His pocket demiplane, The Prison, is a locked place of eternal torture, and anyone entering would be hard pressed to get out."
"Und'Aliber, the Shadow in the Light"," Und'Aliber is a being of pure darkness encased in a shell of light. Shining like a (fake) beacon of hope, it takes on the form of whatever its interlocutor desires the most. Und'Aliber takes extreme delight in tricking followers of the Path of Light into taking evil actions, while still appealing to their sense of ""justice"" or ""honour""."
"Balladar, the Infernal Seneschal"," Diabolic Patron of courtly manners and intrigue, Balladar has agents in the most powerful kingdoms in the world, manipulating events behind the scenes. Not for any eventual goal, but for the simple joy of causing drama in the courts of kings. Backstabbing, secret deals, and lies are his domain, and whenever they are committed in the name of his worshipers, he gains power, no matter the goal."
"Solzerik, the Whispering Shade"," Solzerik is a petty demon, not powerful enough to be of any importance in the Abyss. He instead turns to petty murder, terrorizing villages and small towns. His true joy, however, is what comes after. Using illusions and other magic, Solzerik turns the townspeople against each other, eventually inciting riots and anarchy."
The three breakers of the great demon halls of the Grir'lith mountains, The breakers are three powerful demons who are the torture masters of the great demon halls. they are known far and wide for their malice and their horrible techniques
Barluq Breaker of Body," One of the three breakers of the great demon halls of the Grir'lith mountains, Barluq is called the body breaker because he enjoys not only defeating his opponents in battle, but utterly destroying them, he wields a massive greatclub with which the bodies of his victims crumble a sunder"
Garlrup Breaker of Spirit," The second Breaker of the great demon halls of the Grir'lith mountains. as the second Breaker, Garlrups task is to break the spirit of his foes. he fights them, then raises them from the dead, then he fights them again, carefully making sure not to completely obliterate the bodies of his victims, the victims come back with weaker and weaker bodies. but the fight does not stop untill the victim has lost all hope and surrenders itself to the third breaker"
Lady Grith Breaker of Mind," The third and final of the breakers, Lady Grith tears the victims mind to shreds, she uses her powerful illusion magic to create horrible scenarios in which her victims are forced to abandon all of their principles of not only moral code, but logic and reason as well. the victims will make choices so difficult and twisted that in the end, their mind will be forever broken by the powerful influence of shadow magic, infesting and corrupting their mind as they work their way through her maze of horror."
"Grazzab, the Lightdrinker"," Grazzab is a Shadow Demon who detests all light as an unnatural corruption of the chaotic void in the depths of the Abyss. Grazzab traveled the Planes, hoping to snuff out all sources of Light, and made periodic trips to the Shadowfell to try and heighten its influence over the Prime worlds. Unfortunately for him, he was snared by an ambitious wizard who imprisoned him in an idol on a Prime World, but Grazzab had the last laugh when his counterstroke ripped the wizard's soul from his body and became an energy source that Grazzab uses to spread magical darkness that literally steals, or ""drinks"" the light from the surrounding area. The wizard's tower is now Grazzab's lair, and though he is imprisoned in the idol, his influence over the local area is significant, and he can manifest himself within the total darkness of the tower's confines. Unwary treasure hunters looking to steal the wizard's old loot find their sanity wrenched away if they're lucky; if they're unlucky, they join Grazzab's retinue as Shadows that help guard the idol housing the demon's essence."
"Chamdar, the Soul Binder"," Chamdar is a Chain Devil who delights in tempting mortals into dark pacts and contracts, and then using said mortals for sadistic experiments into the nature of suffering and torment once the terms of the deal are up. Chamdar first began to exert influence over the Prime when a sorcerer in a war-torn country sought to keep his family safe from the fighting--in exchange for helping construct an arcane sanctuary, Chamdar wrenched away the sorcerer's soul and tormented his family mercilessly in the sanctuary, often using the sorcerer himself to inflict the torments. Every night, the sorcerer had his sanity ripped away and he murdered his family in cold blood, only to later be confronted with what he had done. However, due to the nature of the contract, each day his family is restored to life, their memories fully intact, but the sorcerer's recollections were wiped away. Chamdar delights in watching just how torturous the family relations have become."
"Bizuloth, the Betrayer"," Bizuloth, a powerful Archdevil, was imprisoned by Asmodeus for breaking an oath of service he made aeons ago. His once sharp wit and cunning intellect has decayed across millennia into a twisted mind bent upon the destruction of Asmodeus and all who have wronged him. Bizuloth's few remaining lesser devils seek those who could free their master and seek to make a deal for his release. Bizuloth, however, cannot be trusted, as he has lost his honor and any deals he makes are meant to be broken."
"Steve, The Gruesome Trickster"," As easy as it would be to kill anyone in his way on the path to his goal, Steve would much rather hire you to achieve his goal for him, then stab you in the back at the last possible moment. An expert shapeshifter and impersonator, Steve has walked many paths on the Material plane. The lives of the adventurers he has mislead have always been met with abrupt and unfair ends. Steve appreciates a good joke, and he has a ghastly smile to prove it. His name in itself is a ruse, as he guards his true calling as a secret known only to himself. His natural form stands 8 feet tall with smokey grey, spindly arms brandishing foot-long fingers with curled claws at the ends. http://i.imgur.com/Gt4G1WH.png"
idea," Allison, the Vengeful (Gnoll) Once praised as a hero for quelling the Laughing Ones, her tribe settled near a human kingdom. The humans and the gnolls did not get along; her tribe did not survive. Once herald as an embodiment of peace between the races, now feared as her bloodcurdling laughter echoes in the night, her fur forever stained red.   Nobb O. Dee (Doppleganger) Some say the scariest assassins are the ones who can strike anybody down without being seen, Nobb disagrees. Others say the scariest assassins are the ones who can over power the defenses, Nobb disagrees. Nobb says the scariest assassins are the ones that kill without anyone thinking it was an assassination. The best assassins are not known at all...   Aurora, the Spider (Aranea, Drow, or Dryder)"
The Fuckbird," Flayed, fallen and charred, feathers half-melted onto its flesh, filthy and flaking off as it becomes covered in calluses and skin tags. Its has teeth, which no bird should have. Eyes like an unseeing milky constellation across its face, neck, and chest. Extremely knowledgeable about emotions, psychology, and neurology; is able to make a person loved by all by physically extracting ambient bad feelings about them and placing those bad feelings into itself. Kind of an asshole about this talent, demands to be held on high in exchange for its services since it cannot and could not ever fly. Insists that it is The Fuckbird, not merely a Fuckbird."
That Old Time Religion," Pontifex regaled in stories as a gentle guide and storyteller, always offering sympathies and applicable parables to whatever troubles burden a listener. Has never once led a wanderer astray. Instead asks if they would be able to place a nickname upon their companion, a name between friends, a personal signifier that the pontifex can remember in their growing age—there are so many similar names in the world, after all. They have been doing this for some time now, and have only ten names they need to shed that remain. Despite the title, this being is not solely a withered pontifex, but can also appear as such: the pontifex regaled in milky robes and holding a candelabra, the goat-priest adorned in woad and untanned skins; the pilgrim full of pestilence and sunburned flesh; the lamplighter prophet with flame behind their teeth."
Toad-Killer Tracker," Valet and majordomo to The Devil Himself, The Betrayer, The Tempter, The Opposition to God. Maintains an underhanded series of contracts with every devil in existence to funnel every single sinning soul towards Hell; this is not to torment them, but to relieve the strain on all the heavens from containing so many virtuous souls. Hell is spacious enough, and the souls are kept sleeping until they may be sent to their just rewards. May or may not be an actual toad, or every toad in existence that has ever been. Was recently pinned to a tree and is impatient for the nail to rust away so it may continue organizing the dead."
Aspects of the Blood Crystal," Shardmind come from the outcroppings of huge astral psionic crystals. This, the Blood Crystal, was tainted by Fel influence. The whispers of devils, demons and dark gods warped the psionic crystal entity and formed the Blood Crystal. Blood Red Shardminds do its bidding, connected to a mental network. It's not uncommon to see one of these curious Bloody Shardmind in an orcish meeting of clans, warping the minds of lesser beasts to their bidding. They manipulate, work from the shadows. Their agenda would be incomprehensible to lesser mortals."
The Lady Shiver," Dragons Hoard. This white dragon hoards not gold or gems, but real estate. She owns large swathes of lands... and while she takes humanoid form, a pale white lady with beautiful shimmering scale dresses, the serfs and peasants of her lands speak rumours. They see the dragon in her eyes. Those that do not pay their fealty and taxes go mysteriously missing. Curiously at the same time the Lady speaks of the great feast she just had. Her keep has a kitchen built for cooking humans. Giving the Lady the most taboo, sinful and exquisite taste she could imagine. While she seems entirely evil she does protect those that obey her word. Her dragon knights are treated with castles and keeps, and no other evil dares invade her lands."
"Vagrunad, the Warchief of Warchiefs"," Making Orcs behave is hard. Often bands work together. Shamans bow to those that create and weave powerful magics. Feral orcs kneel to the one with the biggest sticks. Vagrunad is beyond all of them. Born with slightly more sense than most orcs, Vagrunad realized that there is no sense in leading the common rabble, the warboys and beserkers. No. Vagrunad started leading the other chiefs, the warlords of the orcs. He started a campaign, beating warchiefs into submission with the raw power of his muscles. Within four years now all of the orcish clans are under his hand. Entire orc clans and warbands are used as a human warrior would use individual bands of soldiers. And now that the orcs are under his control Vagrunad looks to the rest of the world, to conquer."
Cyrix the Immortal," First of the Aboleths, spawn of their eternal memory, father of their hatred and mother of their contempt. Cyrix has existed for longer than we can conprehend, he witnessed the birth of our, so called, gods and the deaths of some of the same. He festers in the deepest pit of the most ancient aboleth city, his hatred and contempt for all other beings flowing from him like a miasma. He considers all others to be below him and even his spawn as dissapointments. His contempt the only thing that kept him from unleashing his devestating will upon the world, but now as the gods grow weak from their squabbles and the mortal creatures delve deeper into his domain, he moves... and the world shudders before his coming."
"Ssaris, the Viper"," Although some whispers speak the name Ssaris, most everyone only knows the name the Viper. The Viper is the demon that strikes from the shadows. He's an assassin known to only the wealthiest of patrons, but with his body count people can't help but wonder if paid work is just a hobby. No one knows what the Viper looks like, or even if he has a physical body, even those wealthy enough to buy his services. All of his clients can only remember the overwhelming sense of fear they experienced when giving him a contract because of the all too real possibility he could turn them down, or just decide they were an easier target. Everyone knows that if you choose to wander into the shadows, you may not come back."
Anarak Icewind," A human wizard/sorcerer who was infused with magic after an encounter with an ice devil in his childhood. The ice devil subconciouly whispers to him and incites his hatred for and anger at others. Because of the devil's whispers, he considers sorcerer's magic more pure than wizard magic (""it comes from the soul"" etc...) and was greatly angered by most wizarding schools for his inability to produce or use any sorcerer spells that did not involve ice or water, and has withdrawn to a keep made of ice to attempt to learn how to produce any non-ice related magic. He is very bitter and hateful of the wizarding community and is very hostile to any other sorcerers' use of non-ice magic. (When he left one of the schools, he stole a wish scroll from one of the teachers and used it to imbue himself with the natural ability to detect magic. As a sad sort of irony; due to his inexperience with any non-ice magic, the effect the wish spell granted him was the ability to detect ice-related magic only, which only makes it easier for him to become angry at the use of non-ice magic.) All of his sorcerer spells must be ice themed/related: Ex. Magic missile shoots ice bolts, he cannot cast fireball with sorcerer slots, Floating disc and Mage armor are made out of ice, burning hands deals frost/cold damage, etc. He much prefers using his sorcerer spells than his wizard spells as he considers them 'unpure', but he considers himself worthy to use them over others because he has innate magical ability as well."
Artrinek ColdBlood," The aforementioned ice devil that rules a small domain in the Abyss. Among his other endeavors, he is attempting to prepare Anarak as a blood sacrifice to further increase his own powers and challenge his rival neighbors in the abyss. He is partial to ice magic and his ambition includes the eventual freezing of hell (the Abyss)."
"Ngoro'th, the bloodthirsty"," A demonic existence, which nowadays needs a host to survive. The host, usually some powerful humanoid fighter, might not even be aware of the demon possessing them, as he usually just subtly, slowly influences his hosts towards achieving his goals (and also towards the things Ngoro'th enjoy, which is things like gambling and fighting, or rather killing people). However, when it suits him, he can take over control of his host, and exhibit great martial strength as well as minor magic tricks. His ultimate goal is to recover his own body, which is held by a demon prince in one of the Hells, but in the meantime he's quite happy with just starting trouble anywhere he goes."
Rithari the Hidden," Rithari dwells in plain sight within the homes of the wealthy and the palaces of kings. He whispers to those who gaze upon him and fill their minds with greed. He delights in watching the downfall that is brought about when one hungers only for gold. Rithari hides in paintings. He is the strange figure staring out from the background, he is in the eyes of the portrait hanging over your bed, he is the birds in the sky of the landscape greeting your visitors at the front door. But Rithari only reveals himself when you have failed. When your last copper has slipped between your fingers and your family has left you alone, that is when Rithari steps out from those brushstrokes and devours your misery and your pain and your soul."
Ugarhutt the Vile," Not every demon dances in the moonlight or skulks under your bed, some dwell in the very place you would never wish to visit. Ugarhutt the Vile gorges on your waste. Sewers and cesspits are like gardens to Ugarhutt but he hates to till the soil alone. Anyone who comes too near will be enslaved and forced to shovel the rot and refuse into Ugarhutts maw until they can feed him no longer and are devored themselves."
"Lorael, the Broken Judge"," Lorael, not originally a demon, but rather a mortal so enthralled in his own desires that he eventually became such a creature, started life as a paladin of all things. Through his journeys, he tried to make the world a better place, to stop the suffering of others. However, as his journeys continued, he saw over and over again that much of the intelligent races' suffering came not from some horrifying creatures from another plane, but rather the intelligent creatures themselves. The more he saw this, the more shaken he became in his faith, until he cast it off entirely, believing with all his heart that the only way to end suffering was to end all life. Realizing he didn't have the power to do it on his own, he began making deals with other being, terrifyingly powerful beings, to help him gain the power to continue on his righteous quest. Eventually he grew more powerful than even the entities who granted him this power, and so he turned against them, breaking his word and slaying them all. Now, he turns to the world, the intelligent races, and his quest to end all suffering."
The Blackest Tide," The Blackest Tide is a creature that defies explanation. Something that has lived in the bowels of the oceans for as long as their has been history. She, if it has a gender, is said to be the mother of all the terrors in the water, the creator of sirens, krakens, even the aboleths. In fact, it is said that she created the Aboleths in her own image. She was locked at the ocean's floor by the elven god Deep Shashelus (I think that's how you spell it), and run through by a great fish hook, chaining her to the bottom of the deepest ocean, where she has sat, and waited, and birthed more monstrosities, waiting for someone foolish enough to free her."
Pemiri," An imp. More than anything, he despises chaos and demons, and so could be a valuable ally for a brief time. However, he will turn on the innate chaos in the PCs, and even a lawful party will not be spared. Uses magic to disguise himself."
Sarangesset," At earlier levels, as he is still gaining power, he would perhaps be a serial killer that turns his victims into animals first, viewing it less immoral. At higher levels, he has changed his ways. He is an animal lover, but a hater of humanity, believing that humans are merely twisted, immoral mockeries of the animal world. Eats humans, but is otherwise a vegetarian. Seeks to use turn all humans into animals using a dread ritual from an ancient warrior race. If he succeeds, he will make himself and a few others who have curried his favor into predators, and all other humans will be prey animals like deer, sheep, mice, etc. to be ""cleansed"" by animals and new-made predators like himself."
Norm Mayfield," Norm Mayfield was not originally a villain. He is one of the common people, a philosopher and mathematical scholar, a man who has become annoyed by the adventurers callous and often inefficient uses of power. He seeks to force the adventurers to help him in less heroic ways. (ie a wizard will be taken captive and forced to research spells that improve irrigation and crop yields rather than simply fighting larger evils) He believes the power of adventurers, especially magicians, should be harnessed not is existential risk prevention, but in making the lives of enormous numbers of common folk just a little bit better. Especially seeks to enslave clerics to create a system of free socialized health care in the Kingdom. Works especially well in a world where less magic is common."
Christoff Williamsson," Male Bullywug Inquisitor A powerful member of the church of the Sun God, Christoff is an inquisitor, a hunter in the name of all that is good. His small stature and semi-comical appearance as a Bullywug disguise his ferocity and innate wrath, often to the detriment of those who have betrayed the Church. He has a penchant for liquor made/garnished with lemon, as well as fish. Any commoner on the street can point out the warm affectionate glow that seems to emanate from behind his form, and are touched by it in a spiritual way they can scarcely describe. Enter Christoff's ultimate betrayal and greatest deception; there is no Christoff. The Bullywug died as a tadpole decades ago, and this Rakshasha has assumed his identity in his plan for world domination. He never truly slays evil creatures, but banishes them to a hellish demiplane of his own creation. Soon he will unleash this army of pure evil on the world, once he can move all the pieces into place, especially once he can trick those pesky PCs into giving him the evil artifact they're trying to destroy."
"Mal'kozov, the Instigator"," Within every generation there are always those among the civilized races who wish to usher in the fiery apocalypse ahead of schedule. When such aspirations turn to deeds, and portals are created or fiends are summoned, there are inevitably whispers of a shadowy instigator. ""the Instigator,"" as it has been named, seems to act as a catalyst: infecting, goading, and feeding on the desires of these malcontents until their dark dreams and anger bubble over into reality. There are no records of the true name, appearance, or origin of this fiend, but such scholars as have studied it mostly agree on it being a harbinger of some sort. The truth is that Mal'kozov has lost their first purpose, and now delights only in stoking the fire, uncaring of the outcome of the events they set in motion."
Garillosh," One of the Lesser Lords of the Nine Hells, Garillosh is a fearsome beast: an eight limbed gorilla of massive proportions, with hair of the deepest crimson. It has gained many names over the eons, but none so apt as ""the Devourer,"" as at the end of every conflict it scours the battlefield, consuming the flesh, bone, and gristle from its fallen enemies."
Al," With his entire race enslaved by shadow demons since he was young, the deep gnome Al had right to be jealous of the overworlders. After possession by a powerful ""sympathetic"" shadow demon, Tenebakalo, his new powers allow him to finally bring an end to the surface dwellers."
Tenebakalo," Possessing a weak deep gnome, the powerful shadow demon feigns sympathy with his cause to use him as a conduit for his powers, and allowing him to take reign of those on the surface. His ambitions will be his undoing."
Euryndas," This guy is one of the sneakiest pieces of scum to ever hit the streets. But, the thing is, the guy didn't just win the streets, he's the puppet master that controls the king too. With a hand in the empire, he makes sure that his little gang can do whatever they want making him the wealthiest person in the city."
That Damn Magpie," It's a regular magpie with uncanny knack for pinching shiny items and avoiding arrows, bolts and stones. It's universally hated by everyone in town and many young men have tried to find it's nest, either to try and get back their stolen items or in hope of getting their hands on it's hoard. So far it managed to outsmart it's pursuers."
The Shambles," A group of downtrodden people have had their minds linked by some spell, these people function with a hive mind. The collective intelligence is enough to predict the future accurately, these groups may start with positive motives, but often devolve into evil schemes."
The pink rose assassins," The members of this group are difficult to distinguish. The members dress as local knights often very convincingly. They will lead their targets to out of reach places, killing them with the weapons of knights. The nature of their façade often leads to questions weather they are just an excuse for murders done by knights. Many insist this group is very real, as they kill commoners and nobles alike."
The brown rag assassins," Dressing as poor farmers and peasants, they only take jobs to kill many. Unlike most assassins they travel in groups just as peasants often do. They will kill off everyone in the building, they are usually hired to send a message rather than to remove an individual."
The noble politician dossier," A wide spanning group of organised nobles usually of low standing. They affect political decisions en mass and are not above dirty tactics to get what they want. Occasionally they get one of their own to the top at which point the group tends to take commands from them. When a leader from their collective begins to do things for themselves the group tends to turn on them, often leading to assassination."
The God Hunters," They do not kill people, but attempt to kill ideas. They have their own god and try to remove faith from others. Their methods vary but they do whatever they can to test the faith of others. Their methods include destroying religious artifacts, burning down places of worship, and openly denouncing other gods."
The Roving Bear Man," A strange man, with an odd fascination for bears, from brown bear cubs to owlbears. He is very unsociable but will behave mostly normal when human. When he takes the form of a bear he tends to steal all he can from small villages and takes them back to his small hut in the woods."
Raakar Longhouse," An advisor to the king, only appointed recently. Raakar has a fascination with voodoo, this is not a hidden fact. His appearance is somewhat warped from his practice of voodoo. Many says he pulls the strings of the king, however the king is protective of him. As such many cannot question this."
Poynt Araderano," An exceptionally stealthy assassin. Unlike most Poynt is not motivated by money, instead only desires a spectacle. He enjoys killing in front of a crowd using his signature needles, carefully piercing vital bloodlines and muscles."
Shelly Baker," Corrupt, the one word to describe Shelly. While maintaining a near flawless public appearance despite the rumours, she pulls strings behind closed doors. Industrial espionage, assassination and sabotage. Nothing is too low, or immoral to keep her business right at the top. This is of course at the expense of the locals who are forced to pay her extortionate rates."
The Red Woman," A succubus would be considered evil on its own merit by some. The Red Woman is one of the oldest living of her species. Many say she has played a part in every major war in the last thousand years. Coercing kings and raising tensions. She did this because in times of war men are not picky of who spends the night with them, and her sisters have benefit from this greatly."
Archmagister Yura," The leader of a hidden colony of an ancient, forgotten race. The Archmagister and his council are incensed when they learn of interlopers within the lands they consider their own. But it is not enough to drive off the settlers, for they want to retain their secret existence. If they force the settlers out, stories of them may be spread. If they kill them all, perhaps others will come looking. No, obviously the only solution is to wipe out everyone on the settler's own continent. To this end Archmagister Yura leads his people in the completion of the greatest and most terrible ritual ever performed: the Ritual of Undoing."
Callus Val," A ghoul warlock promised to the demon prince of undead, Orcus. Callus was once the king-in-waiting of the now ruined city state of Valhazar, where he still dwells. He heads the mockery of an undead kingdom from within his own family's ancestral tomb, deep in the heart of the city's catacombs. Callus was not a brave man when he was alive, and feared assassination attempts from his ambitious younger brother. He made a deal with Orcus for power over death, though he was not careful about the terms of his pact. A demon horde appeared to claim the souls of everyone in Valhazar, and those that were killed in the attack - including Callus - rose up as undead. Callus may have hoped to be brought back as a Lich, but Orcus has a sense of humour. Callus has the horrifying hunger of a ghoul. Yet he retains the intellect he had while living and has used it over centuries to amass equivalent knowledge and power to a lich - he even has managed to create his own phylactery. Callus intends to carve out an empire. The more mobile of his undead servants are sent abroad, for few living people willingly come near Valhazar these days. These undead raiding parties take as many prisoners as they can back to Callus. Some sate his ghoulish hunger, while others are slain and risen again as the newest recruits in his unliving army."
Jorus Val," The younger brother of Callus Val, in life Jorus harboured ambitions for the throne of Valhazar and would gladly have assassinated his brother to claim it. His ambitions drove Callus to make the pact with Orcus that would bring ruin to Valhazar and it's people. Except for Jorus, who was acting as ambassador to a neighbouring nation and away from court at the time of the attack. Jorus' ambition did not abate. He seeks to reclaim and rebuild Valhazar, with himself on the throne. But since he can't do that until Callus and his horde are removed from the ruins, Jorus was forced to investigate how to extend his own life. He has since become a lich. He is attempting to amass a large enough mercenary force to make a foray into Valhazar and slay Callus and his lieutenants - killing the undead minions is not essential to his plan, indeed he would like as many of them to survive as is possible, so he can bind them to his own rule. and may therefore seek to contract powerful heroes. He hires them through a proxy, but if he is forced to meet any hero he presents himself as an archlich (a good-aligned lich), who seeks only to undo the evils of his brother."
Ludik Russell Vansar," A genius, blue-blooded human artificer and serial killer driven by only two desires: firstly, to create artificial, intelligent life. Secondly, a need to prove himself to an uncaring father. He is totally absorbed in his own problems and unfeeling; he sees other people as insignificant, and resources to be harvested. He suffers feverish nightmares that on the completion of his work, its first act will be to kill him. Yet these fatalistic dreams don't stop him - if anything, they seem to drive him on. More details available: https://www.reddit.com/r/DnDBehindTheScreen/comments/2xrrpm/its_terrible_tuesday/cp3yfha"
Rupert Larrat," A mortal man, Rupert Larrat is nevertheless one of the Succubus Queen Tulsami's more powerful lieutenants. He was corrupted by her and brought into her court centuries ago, and his soul nis now so twisted it is more like that of a fiend than a man. He has been promised Tulsami's wayward half-succubus daughter Raina, but is spurned by her. He is a swordsman no warrior should be keen to clash swords with: in his time he was one of the world's greatest duelists, and several hundred years full of practice and a great deal of practical experience have passed since then."
Tulsami," A powerful Succubus, and a rival of Malchanthet for the title of Queen of the Succubi. Both claim the name within their home plane: while Malcanthet and her faction dwell in the Abyss, Tulsami and her followers call the Nine Hells home. Their rivalry is legendary, but Tulsami's ambitions extend far beyond this rivalry, as well as the politics of her own plane. Her succubi and incubi work to corrupt the residents of the material plane in a long-term plan that ends with her taking a realm of her own, and giving the succubi race a purpose in existence other than the work of other fiendish lords."
Lajixl," Sahuagin wereshark priestess. She was afflicted with lycanthropy a few years back and has found a way to use it to her advantage. She is now in control of her tribe, and is working to manipulate (through terror and brute force) several other marine lifeforms (Koalinths, Merrow, & Kuo-Toa) into making massive attacks on local coastal cities."
Fanderful Winkletoes," Gnome vampire. Fanderful was once a local hero, being a part of Graken's Crew, who are known for slaying an ancient blue dragon who terrorized the region. He disappeared ten years ago, and has returned to the local capital and has started working his way up through the political ranks. Many talk about how his temperament has changed drastically since his return, and how many of his old friends now fear him. Many of his political competitors disappear."
Shansa Fazel," Human monk of Bane. At an early age, Shansa was forced into servitude to the Black Hand, a secret sect of monks who promote (enforce) Bane's worship. She is known for her exceptional cruelty in battle, and infamous for removing the eyes of those who refuse to convert to Bane, often while they are still alive."
The Claw," Elven rogue (assassin). None alive know his true name. He is the mysterious leader of the Ravens, the capital's thieves' guild. Very few encounter him directly, but his hand is in almost all the crime that happens in the city."
Karl of the North," Human barbarian king. Brutish barbarian king who united the six northern barbarian tribes five years ago after murdering all the previous clan chiefs. He is the epitome of a raging barbarian in battle, going berserk and killing dozens around him in one sweep of his great axe."
Faladorel," Ancient shadow (bronze) dragon. Faladorel was once a noble, wise dragon, known councelor to the Elven Courts. Unfortunately, as has the same weakness as the rest of the good dragons' kind, and was corrupted by the Shadowfell. Over time, he grew darker and more malicious, and eventually took fully to the shadows. He is now the most fierce enemy of all the elven kingdoms, and instead of aid, offers only death and destruction to his once-allies."
A'kin," Mysterious owner of the local magic shop who always seems to know things he shouldn't or couldn't. Likes to give out magical baubles and trinkets to those who visit, but who knows what they do? Always polite and quick to ask about folks past, often using their names before he's given them. When asked about his past he'll reply ""I'm merely a humble shopkeeper"""
Spell-force," This thing is a 2 foot across crystalline cube with a blueish glow. If hit with a spell, it duplicates that spell in another randomly chosen location within the room. This crystal automatically maintains concentration if needed. Spellforce can be directly damaged by non-magical attacks."
Crash," This thing is a 2 foot across crystalline cube with a orange glow. If hit with a melee attack, it deals that damage to everyone in the room (including the attacker). Crash can only be damaged from attacks which originate further than 15 feet of it."
Solr," This thing is a 2 foot across crystalline cube with a yellow-green glow. Solr has a faintly green-colored spherical field generated approximately 5 feet from it. If a projectile from a ranged attack comes closer than 5 feet of Solr, it is caught in Solr's field. Any creature who crosses Solr's field must succeed a dexterity saving throw or be hit by (some?) projectiles in it's field. Solr can only be damaged by Blunt or Force damage."
Niklas Edge (Ed)," A cursed chef's knife that possesses it's owner. Ed just wants to live his life in peace, spending the rest of his time as a chef (or as the knife of a chef). His cursed status often brings paladins and clerics to his door as they attempt to destroy him. He's forced time and time again to 'eliminate' pesky investigators. He just wants to live in peace, dammit. Why can't you leave him alone?"
Princes Alice/Thieves' Guildmaster Reev," The kingdom controls the military power, the thieves guild controls the money - Princess Alice controls them both. Her exact motives are obscured, but her supreme control of both powers allows her to continuously support her invasion of nearby states, only growing her might (and wealth) more and more with each victory."
The Devout, (Good for a horror/Shadowfell campaign) The Devout are powerful clerics and paladins who strongly believe that all who exist in your town are corrupted and twisted by the evil that surrounds it. They will not succumb to your obvious lies and your failed tricks. The Devout stop at nothing to eliminate the evil you represent.
Roregar," The Roregar are a band of rangers cursed and tormented by their accidental trek into the outer planes. The Roregar have elongated features of their original race, and far, far paler skin. They now see every creature as a huntable beast, including innocent villagers and children. These monsters hate to be defeated by their 'prey' and will intentionally kill off severely wounded members of the party to preserve their hunter-prey dynamic."
Primary Lead Industrial Golem (PLIG)," PLIG was a golem designed and used for an industrial project in which a grand city were to be built. Several wars later, the project lay abandoned and everything shut down... until an accidental encounter reactivates PLIG. PLIG, attempting to resume his task, begins building an army of Golems sent out to gather resources needed from wherever possible, including nearby towns and villages."
Sigmund," Sigmund is a powerful vampire who has spent much of his time building an army of followers. At this point, he has an entire village of followers. He often sends his followers on ""trade"" expeditions to bring in more people to capture and convert."
The Weaver, The weaver is an immortal spell-caster with immense control over residual magic. Each spell cast near her increases her spell-casting prowess. She believes that most mortals abuse the flow of magic and should be cut off from using it.
The Blademaster," The blademaster is a fierce warrior. Having honed his skill over the ages, he rarely misses attacks, making him a formidable foe in combat. When he attacks, roll d30s for the attack roll instead of d20s."
Jimmy Chickenshack," This fat piece of shit runs 4 whores out of the Leg & Whistle, real pigs, and uses the Lunk Brothers to protect himself, and his interests, which are many. He knows just about everyone south of the Gate, and rumor has it that he has connections to interests in the narcotic substances being smuggled out of the Evil Capitol, real heavy shit and expensive as hell, so they say. Jimmy likes to diddle gnomes when he can afford it, which isn't often, and he generally stinks of sour cheese and his own particular musk, which is not unlike rotting shit."
Bodiddle Blank," This elven pimp runs a moderately-sized stable of whores from the top floor of the Come On Inn. His gaudy clothes and outlandish manner hide a crippling alcoholism, which makes him violent and unstable when any of his ""Inner Truths"" get violated. They include, ""Pay on time"", ""Don't disrespect me"", ""Don't beg"", and ""Elves are the superior species"". He walks with a sword-cane, with the pommel of a wolf's head, and can always be found down at the docks on 7th Day, gambling dice with whomever is stupid enough to play with him. He cheats, and well, and has a nose for knowing when to walk away. He hates and fears dogs."
Kerblaine Kersk-Obermeyer," Gnomes have the quickest tongues, and his daddy taught him every dodge that the old man knew, raised him in the life, and fleecing a pigeon came as natural to him as breathing. Con-men don't last long who can't read the mood of a man, or a room, in a single glance, and violence is always the very last resort of a man who has forgotten how to use his wits. Kerblaine knows a hundred street cons, always playing the short-game, never sticking around, never appearing in the same street twice, if he can help it. His favorite dodge is to pretend to have found a lottery ticket in the street, but says he's lost his identification papers, and if the mark can go cash it for him, he'd split the winnings with him. Of course, the grifter can't let the pigeon just stroll away with a valuable ticket, so he asks for a portion of the future winnings, as a ""security bond"" (usually half, and Kerblaine generally forges tickets that pay off 50 gp, not too high to raise suspicion, and not too low as to not be worth the trouble). When the mark pays up and goes to cash in the ticket, Kerblaine disappears like smoke. Sometimes if the mark looks like he deserves it, Kerblaine will tip off the Watch about a potential con-man in the area, heading to the nearest Temple/Shrine of Luck with a phony ticket. He loves a drink and a dance with the ladies (or the men, he's not fussy), and never uses the same alias twice. He sleeps armed."
Sunshine Perkins," 7 feet of muscle and a mug slashed crossways with a blade, all turned to scar tissue. He moves fast when he needs to and is strong enough to lift a horse and carry it 30 feet. Human, late 20s, he rarely speaks, and does so with a deep, melofluous voice and a speech rough and uneducated. His favorite method of torture is carving off the victims eyelids and dislodging the eyes with a spoon, so they dangle, and can watch as the madman carves them up, into grotesqueries, starting with the feet and transforming their bodies into shreikingly horrific ""works of art"", as Sunshine thinks of them. That's just his hobby though. His job is mercenary, and works for a decent wage for most of the major gangs in the area, which one depends on his seasonal mood. His whims change with the sun, but he's generally loyal for the season if paid up and treated well, as his services are in high demand. His doesn't gamble or whore, but is known to drink heavily, preferring thick and bitter stout served in his triple-sized stein, whom he's named ""Daisy""."
Elliot Cooper," Known to his crew as the ""Red Cube"", he is one of a hundred who have led the notorious street gang, ""Hermanos Perdidos"", aka The HP, and he's been one of the lucky ones, strong enough to have consolidated his hold on the nearly 200 members of his brutal community. He is smart and cunning, known to favor rolling blood-red bone dice to make decisions, all just a ruse to make his enemies (and his friends) think he is reckless and unpredictable. In reality, the choices are already made and the dice are just theatre, but effective, and he likes to foster the impression that he is a servant of Fate. He is anything but. A ruthless warlord, who has been expanding his territory, wealth and security for the past 11 years, the second-longest serving ""Los Primero"" in the gang's 80-year history. Elliot is a middle-aged human, with bright red hair and a thick beard. He is tall and stocky with muscle. His favored weapons are two long daggers, named ""Boo"" and ""Spooky"", and his biggest weakness is a fondness for strong narcotics. He fears rats and snakes."
Devine Marco," This old elven wizard controls an empire of assassins and thieves across half the continent. His spies are in every major city and his deep agents are close to a dozen high-ranking officials and people of influence. Completely bent on controlling the entire empire by the time he is 1000 is his life-long goal. A master of logistics, he has created a black-market trade economy that rivals the empire's legitimate one. A deeply intelligent man, his love of numbers and strategical, long-term ideals, have made him a force that the legitimate governments have begrudingly come to accept. His favored tactics against those who interfere with his business is to have one of his assassins administer a mild poison to the offender, who becomes sick with fever and excruciating cramps. After 3 days of this torturous illness the assassin terminates the victim and sends his head to Marco, to add to his collection (preserved in jars in a huge vault in his personal tower)."
Penny Mission," Burglars are not hard to find if you know who to ask. Penny is not an ordinary burglar. She works for the government exclusively, and carries out missions against those who come into the possession of items that are deemed dangerous for that same government. She is devoutly loyal to this Grand Cause and is a raging patriot who has been forced to keep it to herself, and live a double-life. That second life is a studious book-seller, who is rarely seen except on 2nd and 7th Days, and only then for a few hours, and who keeps to herself and does not live beyond her means. Her specialites are gnomish and dwarven traplocks. She can get a Thunder Cutter lock (used on most of the front doors of the private estates she ""visits"") open in under 20 seconds, under 10 on a good day. She favors disarming traps to springing them, and has made a life-long study of the engineering habits of gnomes and dwarves especially, but has a working knowledge of other racial defenses as well. She loves to cook, and indulges that passion when forced into her book-seller role (a grey-haired wallflower named Erma Densmarsh who lets her 2 employees run the business, a small store called ""The Fictional Fen"" - a play on her name, and typical of the ""cutesy"" naming convention of the area). Her culinary skills are reserved primarily for human men. She spent many years being brutalized by them in various jails and prisons around the Realms and was once forced, by hunger, to partially eat a dead cellmate, a man who deserved so much more punishment than being snacked on."
Famous Hippopotamus," A hippopotamus who waded into the wrong mud pool as a child and was endowed with phenomenal magic and superior intelligence. His family were also so affected, but were slain by hunters. He was saved only because he revealed his freakish intellect before he could be killed, and was instead sold to a travelling circus. Here he became world famous for his performing tricks, and it was at the circus he met the fortune teller Razoo who started him on his journey of magical discovery. Eventually his knowledge grew great enough that he could escape his cage and run away from the zoo. Walking upright like a man and concealing himself under a cloak, Famous Hippopotamus was able to pass himself off as a larger humanoid, like a goliath or half-ogre. He lives on the fringes of society and has become the leader of a dark guild. His minions steal for him whatever scraps of magical knowledge they can find, and he grows ever more powerful. One day, Famous Hippopotamus intends to reveal himself and enact a grand scheme to make humanity pay for the things their kind have made him suffer."
Caldwell," Caldwell is a master wizard who specializes in illusion-based magic and deception. He uses blackmail and other under-handed tricks to hold power over any of his allies and enemies, ensuring that he never has to fight anyone himself, while spreading his control as far a possible."
Alder," A revenant who has his time limit magically suspended indefinitely. An enforcer who fears nothing, least of all death. He has the unique ability to disjoint any two things (especially bones) easily with the slightest touch, allowing him to cripple enemies and even disassemble weapons with ease."
Mother Magdela Rimedragon," Formerly the mother superior of a convent dedicated to an excessively unfun sun god, she was turned to evil and madness by a dethroned divine tyrant. Her nunnery is still outwardly all stiff and good, but every sister has been converted and nothing stays dead for long in the catacombs. Anyone seeking to do her in will be met with nary a magic missile or crossbow bolt; she is polite, first and foremost, and will calmly question and chide any interlopers in her sanctum (while a scentless poison gas to which she is immune builds to a lethal level in the ventless chamber)."
"Lord Naples, Sr."," Creaking in the termite-ridden rocking chair he insisted on being buried with, the late Lord Conrad Naples, Sr fumes over the incompetence of his only son, who is no doubt spuriously wasting the family wealth, not to mention definitely not watering the lilies twice a week, and would it hurt to wear that shirt his mother bought him? Kept in check by layers of holy circles, booby traps, and elemental guardians, Conrad nonetheless draws adventurers to his aid through his vast mental powers. Any that survive the hurdles of his prison will be offered the task of killing Naples, Jr, for which they will be repaid with a sack of copper pieces and a swift kick in the rear, because in my day you had to kill ten men if you wanted an egg for breakfast, and damn if you didn't earn it, not like kids these days."
Chef Sargossa," Sargossa makes her living touring the world, cooking extravagant dinners for the rich and dim-witted. Her reputation precedes her, and makes a potent weapon against her hated aristocrat patrons. Signature dishes include unicorn steak, gelatinous scoops, and soup like your mother would make. Few complain, when doing so reveals how unrefined one's palette is. She might be encountered as the chef at a privileged estate, serving drider eggs benedict, or collecting unwilling ingredients."
"Assistant Vice-Associate of Artifact Requisitions, Cuthbert St. Rufterfrangle"," Cuthbert needs things done by the book, and he IS the book. NOTHING must be out of place and EVERYTHING must be accounted for, on paper, signed and stamped by at least three witnesses. Adventurers? The bane of his existence. They never fill out their forms right, and for every two hours of paperwork they give him he's going to give them two days of waiting around for their next assignment or paycheck. Oh, you forgot your requisition papers? Maybe he'll ""forget"" about that dragon that is guarding the location of your next mcguffin..."
Stitches," Stitches was made by the Millers on a lazy summer evening about 15 years ago. Billy got the stuffing, Mary did the sewing, the Twins helped find the best sticks for his body, and when it was done Ma helped draw on the face and Pa set it up in the fields to help protect their autumn crops. Then a wandering hag found her way to the sleepy farmstead. Stitches awoke with a deep gnawing desire to be human and a hatred of all things living. Now he wanders the dark moors of the land looking for fresh body parts to stuff into his sewing and skin to tighten his rotting fabric. His face remains, bloodstained, with the happy upwards smile in blue and black poster paint."
Big Boss Bo Bartrand," The Big Boss is king of the undercity, the underground. He has his fingers in all the pies and he pulls all the strings. No matter what con you're running, the Big Boss gets his cut or you will GET cut. He has a wealth of information, available for the right price. He can get you into the right places, for the right price. Money gets you access to everything, but don't get the wrong idea, Big Boss Bartrand still owns everything. This is his city, and if you even think about crossing him you'll be sleepin' with the fishes by morning."
"The Remarkable Five, Adventurers for Hire!"," Consisting of a Dwarf Fighter, Elven Ranger, Half-Orc Barbarian, Halfling Rogue, and Human Wizard, these adventurers are the talk of the town! Their deeds are legendary, their prices reasonable, and their hearts are pure. Sure, they accidentally murdered that village instead of helping them. Sure, they attacked and killed that one paladin because the fighter wanted his +2 magic sword. Okay, sure instead of negotiating peace with the goblin tribe they slaughtered them all to the last man and looted their corpses- but they are DEFINITELY not the bad guys and there DEFINITELY won't be ANY collateral damage if you hire them. Promise."
The Prowler," The Prowler is a serial killer, either human or elf, who stalks the streets of . His identity is unknown but he wears a black trenchcoat, a mask (similar to that of Darth Nihilus), and is extremely skilled with a short sword and magic. Every 1d10 days he kills 1d4 people, mainly city guards, and raises them as zombies."
Ayllen of the House of Goldentree," Ayllen Goldentree is an elven noble woman living in . While she is only a minor noble in theory, she exercises massive influence due to her network of spies and assassins. She knows the secrets of almost every noble in . She tries to contract the PCs to work for her. Not one to take no for an answer, if they refuse, she finds some sort of secret of the players to strong arm them into helping her."
The Blackarrow Clan," More of a group of antagonists than a group of villains. The Blackarrow Clan is a clan famous for its bounty hunters. Lord Erroll Blackarrow is a human ranger, the current head of the clan, and the best bounty hunter in the land. The Blackarrow Clan’s signature weapon is the infamous black arrow, a secret family recipe for a black poison that is applied to the tip of an arrow (thus its name) which causes 2d6 poison damage along with unconsciousness in 1d10 turns. The idea is that if the PCs commit some sort of crime worthy of getting a bounty placed on their heads and the Blackarrow Clan comes after them. Starting with younger members, the PCs will have to deal with older and more experienced Blackarrow bounty hunters until they have to face Lord Blackarrow himself."
Avard the Starved and the Starving Army," Avard the Starved is a human who was once a wizard who experimented with ghouls and ghasts. He was ostracised after several “subjects” escaped from his lad and made a meal of a few townspeople. Furiously, he continued his experiments in the wilderness. After an experiment gone wrong, Avard was turned into a ghast/human hybrid but retained his spellcasting ability and the ability to command ghouls and other ghasts. Deciding to get revenge on the people who exiled him, he assembled an army of ghouls and ghasts that later became known as the Starving Army. Some of the ghasts he managed to teach magic and he taught them how to cast greater invisibility multiple times. Forming the ghouls into squads of five ghouls and one ghast, Avard then set them upon various cities and towns resulting in an increase in guards all over  to protect the people from roving bands of invisible ghouls. OPTIONAL: Many criminals saw this and witnessed the power of Avard and approached him asking to be turned into ghast/human hybrids themselves. Avard obliged and made them the officers in his army."
The Severed (& The Skeleton Guild)," No one has seen this mysterious figure, but everyone is aware of the Skeleton Guild that follows them. Some form of necromancy has taken foot of the surrounding area, meaning that any body rendered down to a skeleton through whatever means is immediately animated as a ""member"" of the Skeleton Guild; a crazed construct bent on ""liberating"" other skeletons from their fleshy prisons. All signs point to one of the twelve Merchant Council members being The Severed though it remains to be seen which one it may be."
Grand Savage," The leader of the largest orcish clan in the unclaimed wilds has always earned the moniker of Grand Savage as a term of respect from all subordinates and rivals. The current title holder is an eccentric yet towering old orc with a penchant for wide brimmed hats and leopard skins, his weary eyes hidden behind a pair of darkened spectacles. His aim is to unite the clans through whatever means necessary and slaughter the settlers that dare encroach on (what he considers) the orcs' rightful holdings, just as he butchered his way to the top of the food chain."
Archivist T'veleroth," An ancient Mindflayer that had found itself sealed in an abandoned temple many centuries ago, T'veleroth swiftly lost his mind. With no food to prey upon and no way to escape he slowly became more deranged and desperate, eventually making a deal with whatever god or demon could ensure he survived his imprisonment. The deal was a success, but the cost was his free will; now he stalks the temple, enslaving the minds of others who dare enter to serve his dark lord and studying ways to bring his master's avatar into this world."
Lord Eldric var Malum," A minor lord with a glittering military career, he was charged with leading the assault on a valley that laid within contested territory; a task that many thought would be simple as the neighboring kingdom had few defenses positioned there. What instead occurred was a decade long guerrilla campaign which led to heavy losses on both side. With mounting pressure from his superiors and news of enemy reinforcements approaching he set off a deadly arcane bomb that devastated the surrounding land, wiping out both sides, including his wife and child who were stationed at the army's base camp. As the only survivor he blames both his own empire and the enemy for what happened and now aims to ascend to the throne, bring retribution against all he considers guilty and find a way to bring his family back from the dead by any means necessary."
Gorgash," Taken in by a pack of wolves when he was young, he never quite fit in. Sperating from his adopted family to try and find his birth parents led him on a life changing journey. He only found that his mother was killed at child birth, and his father killed himself shortly after trying to kill his only son by feeding him to the wolves. Gorgash now travels the country-side murdering new families in fear that the same thing will happen to them."
Fjord Horchok," Grew up son of an innkeeper, didn't find his wizard potential until teenage years. Was shipped off to the college in the capital to become professional wizard. Was drafted to the military during the civil war, forced to kill hundreds of people. Now hunts after military officials to avenge the innocent people he killed."
The Dealer," Nobody knows his real name because he never reveals it. He hands cards of great power to people he feels have the capability to complete certain tasks (ie, rule over a group of people, kill your loved ones, make people think you're a god). He'll give many different people cards who will often ""intersec"" each other."
Yelong The Risen," The once-dead Warlock who served Orcus, the demon lord. Yelong lead an army of undead in his attempt to conquer the world and crush the living via his mystical tablet, which could raise any who died as his thralls. In death the tablet was cast into the caverns below the earth and Yelong himself burned, however his dark master was not content to let him lie, and Orcus raised him from his ashes, combined with the essence of a demon servant. Now he dwells in the depths, seeking his tablet while trying to remain hidden from the world that destroyed him."
Julius Carellius," Julius is a man of his time, highly intelligent and blessed with land and fortune from his noble family. With the conflicts of the past years abated somewhat he was free to pursue his desires: the study of magic, natural philosophy and archaeology along with unrestrained hedonism. This made him somewhat infamous, and as his senses dulled with each new pleasure he began to merge his studies with his pastimes and engage in depraved rituals of hideous nature. This all culminated in an incident in which his villa went silent, and from the doors emerged a wailing and screeching creature. The wight that was Julius is of unusually great power and terrorizes the local populace to this day."
Valaran the Doomsayer," Valaran was a wandering prophet and though he achieved fame as a soothsayer to many he was an omen of doom. As it turns out the latter may have been more accurate, for Valaran was blessed by the Goddess of Time and used his extended life to become the world's most powerful Time Magus. With the flow of the ages in his grasp he became a mercurial wanderer, going from place to place and weaving fate as he went. When he was offended, or simply on a whim, he chose a new future for a person or place where calamity befell them. To defeat Valaran will not only require skill but subterfuge of an incredible nature, for if he knows you are coming you have already failed, and the wits to outdo a man who has seen the end and beginning of time itself."
"Thrakk, the Chief of the Palefists, Lord of Eastern Horde, Slayer of Men, Eater of Elves"," Thrakk leads a horde of 10,000 orcs. He is big, mean, and pretty clever—for an orc. He's called the ""Eater of Elves,"" but really he'll eat anything that doesn't want to be eaten."
"Heigerwach, the Necromancer"," Heigerwach led a death cult that gained a considerable following a few decades ago. He led the cult and he was loathe to share power with his followers. When the king's knights and assassins closed the noose around his cult, Heigerwach vanished without a trace. There are some rumors that he's still alive, waiting for an opportunity to return and reestablish his power. There are other rumors that he is dead, and he will return to haunt those responsible for his fall from power. Some whisper that he has already returned and is indoctrinating more followers and training them all in the necromantic arts."
"Pholx'zto, the Grinning Green Dragon"," The enormous green dragon breaks into a smile. ""Where are my manners? My name is Prasino Pholx'zto Chamogelo, the Grinning Green, also known as Pholx'zto the Poisonous Smile or the Toxic Tongue of the Warpwood. But you may call me Your Excellency, and I come from far to the east of the great mountains. I am impressed with your sense of devotion to each other, helping one another..."" the Pholx'zto pauses, and furrows his brow, ""we are only as strong as we can trust our friends, right?"" The dragon smiles again. ""Perhaps, you can be of service to the mighty Pholx'zto?"""
"The King of Flesh, Ghoulish Hierophant"," In a dense jungle filled with strange and ancient beasts, the mighty and ancient flesh-eating ghoul, known as the King of Flesh, leads a mad cult of death, demon-worship, and cannibalism from within the walls of an ancient ruin built by an older even further-from-memory civilization. He was a paladin, pure and devoted to the light who led a small part to reclaim the ancient temple in the jungle. He and his companions ended up trapped in the lower levels of the ruin: without food, without water, without light, and surrounded by an ancient demonic presence, they were driven to madness and cannibalism."
"The King of Souls, Wraith-Sorcerer"," On a frozen plane, the King of Wraiths the incorporeal spirits walk about ranging widely across worlds to feast on the souls of the living, leaving mindless, soulless, burnt out husks of creatures in their wake. He once was a mighty and noble barbarian chieftain who united the clans and led them against the forces of the dead, until he was bewitched by a beautiful elf who enticed him to abandon his people. She wasn't an elf, she was a succubus, and his people fell into chaos and war as the other chiefs jockeyed for power."
"The King of Decay, Wormy Mass of Zombified Flesh"," In a dark and shadowy swamp covered with black, twisted trees, where the sky vacillates between pitch black and sickly dark gray with the cycle of days, lairs a rotting heap of maggot-ridden flesh and malevolent thought, the King of Decay. He commands an army of the dead (zombies and larva undead) who spread a plague that could consume all the other worlds. He once was a wondrous sage and healer, who studied zombie plagues in hopes of eradicating them: you can see how well that turned out."
Beardo the Black," An outlaw and brigand of the worst stripe, Beardo the Black has been terrorizing the northern countryside for more than a decade. Periodically, the towns and clans band together and break apart his gang and drive him off to the mountains, but he always seems to elude capture. Eventually, he returns with a new band of thieves and thugs and begins raiding again, preying upon travelers and farms."
Relsch and Vidd Ahock," Vidd and Relsch are brothers who inherited a large fortune from their ruthless evil genius father who made it big in mining iron and coal. They quietly began buying up mining interests in gold, silver, copper, and gems. They also began buying exclusive distribution contracts with the guilds that process the raw materials. They have more recently been spending gold to influence curriculum at various academies and universities and among the councils of nobles in several nations across the continent. They even sponsor acting troupes that move about the countryside performing tales in which the wealthy and powerful are champions over the forces of evil. They have thousands dependent on them for work, and hundreds dependent on them to maintain their illusion of power. They're playing the long game, but they're getting close to having the entire world under their thumbs (if it isn't already...)."
Malspora," Malspora was once an elf-maid and druid of great beauty and power, though she has long-since forgotten her Elvish name. Long ago in her forest, she came upon a strange, tentacled fungus that called to her in sweet whispers. When she approached it, the fungus wrapped it's tentacles around her and held her captive for years. Slowly, the fungus changed her: it twisted her form, and poisoned her mind with ugly and terrifying thoughts. Then, after a time, the grasping tentacles released her. She now roams the world, spreading deadly spores. When a creature inhales the spore, its mind rots over the course of a few hours and then it dies, only to rise as a fungal zombie. These fungal zombies rove in bands, uprooting trees and plants and pummeling living creatures, leaving a trail of destruction and decay. When one of the fungal zombies is slain, spores erupt from its corpse, thus creating more fungal zombies. By some foul craft, Malapora's mind is preserved from the rot, and, though she can't command the fungal zombies, she's quite adept at avoiding them and leading them untouched territory. She has hopes of creating a world where the body of every plant, beast, and humanoid has been reduced to a decaying mass for the cultivation of tentacled, malevolent fungus."
Gabo Dinsey," Small-time mob boss in a medium-sized town. Not Thieves' Guild, though has connections and will sometimes carry out work for them. Owns a large manor on a hill outside of town, next to the river. His font business is trading in antique furniture."
Evira Dath," A powerful mage who, long ago, sacrificed herself for the good of her people: she voluntarily became a lich so that she had access to the power to save the kingdom from an invading goblin force. She was convinced that the purity of her mission could keep her from straying into evil -- and indeed she succeeded in turning back the goblins, through the use of necromancy and foul diseases. Her mission fulfilled, she fled, undying, into the remote mountains in an attempt to spare others from her evil deeds. However, over the intervening centuries, her transformation has corrupted and embittered her, and she seeks to take revenge upon those she blames for her transformation; the kingdom she once called home."
Roderick of Spode," Roderick seems to be an ordinary historian, interested in collecting and preserving relics of previous ages -- especially now, since the spate of thefts from crypts and ruins all over the kingdom. Indeed, he will hire groups of heroes to venture into such places to secure them before the thieves get to them! He has an affable and genial manner, with a distinctive speech impediment, but this is a facade: in actual fact, he is to blame for the thefts (his concern is an act), and is seeking a particular long-lost dark artefact, for the power it can give, and to complete a certain ritual..."
Sam the Man," Who is Sam? Does he really have no possessions? Then where did he get that iron golem that follows him around? How does he turn up in the most unreasonable places, and how does he survive so easily in the depths of the wilderness? Why does he never seem to change, even his clothes, and why do people always seem to forget things when they are around him? And how does he know the party's names?"
Nadeera the Severer," ""We are all puppets. Even you, though you are special. You think you have agency. You do not. You are merely avatars for a cabal of extraplanar beings to meddle in our affairs. Heh... Our affairs. As if we have control over those. The rest of us are even less; we are simply an illusion. A projection of a mad overlord, to whom even your controllers must pay deference. He created us, fabrications for his sick whimsy. Every moment of your adventure since you came together, every ally and foe, every challenge you have overcome, has been naught but a game of chance. Your entire lives were dreamt up by him and his underlings. We have no will. No agency. No lives. Even the gods are but players in his minstrelsy. There is but one solution. We must sever the strings."""

Mystery Name,Mystery Description

What strange things have these brave warriors seen?," In the anticipation on the eve of battle, one's mind might start playing tricks. After the confusion and gore of a pitched battle, who is to say that the strange tales told by the men and women who fought are not true? In a fantasy setting, some knights, sellswords, barbarian warriors, and common soldiers may forget most of the experience of a battle. But, sometimes, something will stick in the mind of one of these warriors, something unusual or out-of-place on the battlefield... The mystery doesn't necessarily have to be solvable at all, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs. I'll post a few examples."
The Swan Among the Reeds," While scouting the low hillocks and puddles of the Ravensmarsh on the eve of battle, I came upon a swan who told me to leave this place before dawn. Had I heeded the advice, I might still have two hands and be able to do honest work."
The Child-Saint," On the killing fields in the battle of Gundar's Pass, I fould myself trapped beneath my dying horse. My leg was badly broken and our lines were breaking. I was saying a prayer for my wife and sons when a child dressed in gold lifted my horse and told me, ""Go. Live."""
The Wriggling Plague," When the wild men came down on Fort Whitewood, we were ill-prepared to withstand a long siege. I led a sortie out to burn their supplies before their force had complete encircled us. I came upon two scouts on foot who I quickly dispatched with my sword. Where their intestines ought to have spilled from their bellies came wriggling black feelers. The things came wriggling toward me. I am not proud of it, but I rode hard south. Something was wrong with those savages, and I did not to wait around in the fort for it to get to us."
The Dead Laugh," I had sold my sword to the Prince of Jalak, and I was with a boarding party on one of the warships attempting to break the Easterlings' blockade. A fireball blasted the deck on which I stood, and sent me hurtling into the sea. As I drifted, floating on a piece of the broken ship, the dead floated past me. They were laughing. All of them. Easterlings, Sandfolk, other foreign mercenaries. I'll never forget their smiles, and the sound of their mocking laughter."
The Pink Sky," You do know that during the Battle of Gwyllam's Crossing, the midday sky went from overcast grey to pink. My comrades saw it too. After the enemy was defeated, the sky went back to grey. It was the damnedest thing."
The Whippish Beard," We were on patrol, and we ended up skirmishing with a Bearmitt hunting party. A dwarf in our party fell and lost his axe while tangling with one of their hairier warriors. I swear to the gods I saw his beard, long and braided, uncoil itself, grab the axe from where it lay—several yards away!—like a fracking tentacle, and smash that Bearmitt savage in the skull."
Death has a Familiar Face," The commander decided to launch the attack at dawn. Before the sun's rays even crested the top of Hollow Hill, we rode towards the enemy encampment. We did not find a single living soul there. Fires were still burning. Swords and shields were still on their racks. Even the horses had disappeared. It seemed as if they had all vanished like a breath on the wind. The Count had hired a cabal of wizards to partake in the siege of Whitewalls and the men were wary of them. We don't like them lot who work for coin you see. They thought they'd break down the gate with their chanting and their rituals, and this whole campaign would have be over in a week if they had. But as they stood in their chalk circle mumbling, one of the incanters dropped limp. Maybe it was a lucky arrow from the battlements, none of us saw it. But as soon as the man in robes hit the ground a shape wrapped in shadows rose from the circle. They tried to run, but that thing was faster. It gutted them all before vanishing. You should have seen the Count's face, not that we were cheering either I'll tell you that. I rushed towards the soldier, but as I struck him down, he wasn't there anymore. Instead there was my wife, my mace embedded in her skull. She was holding little Callum in her arms. I swear it, it's true, and just as true I ran away like the Seven Devils were chasing me."
She who walked among us," It was just after the clash of the armies, we fought at the front at about 5-1, but we fought like the lions we wore on our banners. When I went down after the horse knocked me over I saw the lady, in full battle gear with a long sword in hand, just walking through the fighting masses, dodging with a small wicked grin of satisfaction. Nobody ever saw her they swore to me, but I know what I saw as clear as you lot standing in front of me."
The one left behind," By all accounts I should have been dead (revealing two large scars on his chest) that day. I had fallen, I saw my brothers and the other fallen on the other side, waiting for the Valkyries to take us away. I saw them come and take my brothers and enemies alike, but they left me standing, next day I woke up on the battlefield between all the bodies and gore with cursing scavengers looting my body."
The raven and the fox," Everyone knows bad omens when they see them, a murder of crows following you or a red sunset at the eve of a battle. But a raven and black fox watch us that day when our supply caravan was ambushed on the road. It followed us all day, and old Huck warned us that we should take the longer road. And than they vanished from sight, not five minutes later the enemy was upon us, but I am the only one to tell the tale now."
The Wardancers," I have seen many a'unit fall under our feet, crushed by our prowess and experience. But never will I forget the day we stood against the Elves of Shinmaer with their slim curved swords, we laughed and taunted their troups and their leather laced armor. But they just ran at us, without a sound, and they danced between us on unheard music like leafs on the winds of winter, and they shredded and tore through our ranks leaving nothing in their wake but falling soldiers and red-stained grass. We won that day, but for no gold in the world would I do that again."
Parting words," I ran a man through with such force that my hilt met his chest and we came face to face. He stared at me with a grin and whispered ""Excellent thrust, Calleb"" before he fell dead in the stream. How did he know my name?"
Wrong Door," In the heat of the chaos outside the siege of Castle Grendon, I saw a burst of light and wind not 20 paces away from me. A glowing circle appeared in the middle of the battlefield and a wizard, a halfling, an armored dwarf, and a half orc stepped through it. The wizard glanced around quickly before yelling ""Whoa! Whoops! Hold on.."" and pushing the other three back through the sparkling rift. The magical anomaly disappeared. I was so stunned I almost got my head taken off."
Stephen the Streaker," Did I ever tell you about Stephen Bagge? When that string bean, twig of a man joined our platoon I thought he'd never live past his first skirmish. But, at the start of the Gordinia Woods battle, he sheds all his armor til he's just standin' there nude with his sword in hand. He charged into the fray and came out soaked in blood but untouched and through his breeches back on. The other lads made fun of him, called him names, said the only reason he survived all those battles was the enemy hesitating at the sight of him long enough to get cut down. But I saw him fight at Kaylor plains ... that boy moved with unnatural speed and skill..."
THE MARSH MEN, From the marshes they rose. All of the fallen. They shambled towards our regiment in haphazard organizations. So shocked was my regiment that we were torn apart. To this day I'll never forget the look of my warrior's faces as I fled.
IN THE HILLS IT HUNTED," The general had told me and my regiment to scout the Iron Hills. The morning was crisp and early, but the heat of the sun removed any chance of respite in the cold morning. We had been told to be on a lookout for a missing patrol, so naturally we were on edge. It was then, when the mists swirled before a low rise we saw it. An enormous beast, humanoid in posture, but a great goat head replaced what human features would be atop its broad shoulders. It bellowed at our patrol, and as it charged towards us, hefting a bloodied axe, I recognized the head of Rommel, my mothers cousin swinging on a belt tied to the beasts bulk, alongside members of the missing patrol. We never stood a chance, I survived only because I crawled into a ditch and hid, as my friends were torn apart."
NO RETURN," Yes dearie. My son, Jorgan, was drafted into the army some two moons ago. It was during the harvest festival that the visions began. During my sleep I watched my son do battle against the Northmen. Last night, he rode into the mists. He didn't return."
bold," To get bold you put two '*' stars on either side. Like so:
 ====> * * bold stuff * *"
The Night Battle," It was the last fight of the Greenseer Rebellion. Finally got those damn rebels to stand still and give a fair fight. We got our lines dressed at noon, and we advanced. There wasn't a cloud in the sky. Then, in the middle of the fight, I thought I saw smoke. I wondered if their camp was afire, but it was off to the flanks, not behind their lines. The cloud grew and grew, until it blotted out the sun, and we were in the dark. Then the cloud came down, further and further. And then it was amongst us - and it was bats. Thousands and thousands and thousands. All flying around us, the whole battle. Then, just as quick, they flew away, leaving the sky blue again. Strangest thing."
The Lights," I was on guard duty one night. We were on manoeuvres, but there wasn't an enemy anywhere near. So I was a bit surprised to see torches out there in the dark. Called the commander, and he raised the alert, so we formed up and got ready to receive a charge. The torches came closer and closer until they broke cover - and there was nothing there. No torches, no people, just the lights. The lights passed through our lines. Right through us. Corporal Gripes says he heard their footsteps, and I swear I felt the heat from one of the torches, but not a man saw a thing but the lights."
The Battle of the Mists," Ah, honoured master! Will you not sit with me and have a pipe? Yes, yes, just here. Achmed! Lazy boy! Bring my honoured guest a drink! You ask about The Battle of the Mists? Ah, honoured master, there is a tale to chill the blood, even on a day like today where the heat bears down. The dogs of the Berber Emirate needed to be taught to respect their true masters, so the armies of the Calphate were mustered. I was a humble Captain, commanding a mere one hundred lancers. Ah, I know my form is no longer of the dashing warrior I once was. But once, I was lithe and strong, and pleasing to the eyes of many a young beauty. The curs sought to hide from our wrath near the Bone Hills, but we stole a march on them and had them before us. Beautiful country for a horseman, honoured master. Flat and wide and just begging for a glorious charge. And who were we to deny? Yes, Achmed, the dates! I always have dates for the noon meal! And some for my guest! But as we trotted forwards, a strange mist arose. Nothing have I seen like it in all my days. The mists came, and enveloped us all. We could still hear their barbarous war-cries, and so we continued. But when the mists lifted, the plains were empty. From all around us, the cries of the Berbers, but no sign of them could be seen. They shouted that they could not see us, that we were cowards who had fled them, but they were the ones who had vanished. And then I saw a terrible thing. Many have called me a liar for my tale, but may the Prophet (peace be upon him) strike me down should I give tongue to a falsehood. A hundred great chariots sped across the plains, faster than the swiftest horse. But no horses pulled these great metal chariots. No wheels I saw, just dust. And a great tube, like the trunk of an elephant held outstretched before them. And the tubes spat fire! With a crash like that of thunder! I felt the great roar pass through my very body, and my horse reared. I crashed to the earth, and when I looked up, I was amongst the Berber rabble one more. They had been mown down like wheat and were routing before us, so none took notice of my fall. I looked about, and saw nothing of the monstrous chariots. None of my men - brave warriors all - ever spoke of that day. We were honoured for our part in a great victory, although truth be told not one of us wet our blades. I see doubt in your eyes, honoured master, and yet I swear by all that is, and by the truth of the Book that all befell as I have told you."
The Battle of Dragons," You've never seen a dragon. Well, six I've seen. Six more that I ever wish I'd seen, if truth be told. I was a soldier once. Marched with the King against his brother when he tried for the throne. It was a cold day, and the Prince's army had found us and gave battle. Messy fight it was, with all of us mixed up with each other, tough hand-to-hand work. And then the shadow came over us. I looked up - and saw wings spread as wide as a ships sails. Massive red bugger it was. Flew over us, and landed to the side of the battle. And then another, shining like a copper penny, flew down. And another, green like the treetops. Then one gold, one silver, one black as night. They perched all around the battle, like they was watching us, or guarding us or herding. I dunno. They just sat there. Then they roared, and it was like they were trying to tear the air apart with their voices. The din shook the air in my lungs. Were they shouting at us? Or at each other? I don't know. Then, they stopped. It was so silent. And then they few away. We looked at each other - King's men, Prince's men - and we went back to our lines. nobody wanted to fight any more that day."
The War Nobody Won," The war wasn't just bloody, it was horror made flesh. Five armies? Six? Who could tell, with the alliances breaking and binding and breaking again. A sea of death, where the waves could barely hear themselves speak. When the survivors woke, they woke to desolation. Generals and kings slain, homes burned, whole cities annihilated. There was no victor... and if there was, they never stepped forward to take command. All that remained was charred chaos and bodies. Nobody knows who finally put a stop to the fighting."
La Victoire," ""I survived every cavalry charge and archer barrage that they sent up to us on top of Carver Hill. And every time, I swear I saw that same soldier. I know, because of his eyes. Blue, like bits of glowing lightning. Every time, I killed him, but he kept coming back. Sometimes... sometimes I think he still might."""
Oathbreaker," Fifteen years ago, he ran when he swore to fight, and his king paid the price. He refuses to defend himself, despite how far he fell to save himself. Unless... that wasn't the reason?"
The Plains of Glass," The prophet stood on the stony outcrop overlooking the battle, and held out one interdictory hand. I still remember the sound of screeching and shattering as our weapons turned to glass in our hands."
For Nitka," Throughout all the variations of sound in the universe, there is a melody that, if played upon a certain instrument, tuned to a certain off-key, played at a certain pace, will kill everybody who listened to it from start to finish. The papers the song was written too are titled, ""For Nitka,"" but whoever Nitka is or who the author of the composition was is of great mystery now. If you plug your ears while listening to the song, or should you begin listening to it too late or begin listening too early, then your life will be spared. The song has only been performed once, and that was at a piano recital in the mansion of the family who claimed that an ancestor of their wrote it. One who'd been listening but left to use the latrine returned just in time to hear the end of the song and witness as everybody, including the player, suddenly fell over dead. ""It wasn't even that bad of a song,"" the survivor claimed."
The Pillars," There are only three forests in the world where you will find a clearing of trees, where atop stand seven white marble pillars arranged in a circle. The pillars have existed on that hilltop longer than anyone can remember and there are no records of its construction and no nation can confidently make claim. As to what the pillars were erected for is a mystery. There are no bones in the dirt and there are no bloodstains on the stone. There are no articles to be found anywhere in the area. There are no other structures within miles of the pillars, and there are no deliberate paths leading to them. Yet people still find the pillars to sleep there. People who sleep in the circle of the pillars always have lucid dreams, which some will try to interpret as prophetic. Ceremonies to invoke for accurate dreams have changed throughout the centuries, but the dreams are always vague and weird. Sometimes, however, once in a generation, there will be a person who sleeps in the center of the circle of pillars and will awake recounting to have wandered through a great library, reading books about lost nations and civilizations, then awaking with a perfect memory of the experience."
The Coward in the Cave," I was in my seventeenth it eighteenth year, I remember, when I was on the front lines for the first time. My mind was racing with the thoughts of my father and mother, and just before we marched, I broke formation. I ran and ran, until I came across a nearby cave. I ducked in there and hid for what seemed a half day. When I came out, though, the battlefield was spotless. The camps, I could see, had only just begun to be set up, as though I had gone back three days. I ran as fast as I could from there, back to my parents' homestead."
War of the Woods," There used to be a keep wedged in a valley, near the the great river. One either side of the keep were great forests. One day, the sovereign ordered for the villagers to evacuate, fearing a great force would soon come to eradicate his people. The next month, the wildlife in the forest seemed to storm the the valley, and many who did not leave were caught in the mayhem. The survivors left as fast and fled as far as possible. Their stories say that the forest denizens were more interested in goring one another, and that the animals were painted in blue and red, like warring armies."
Thunderstruck," We were pinned. Trapped on the cliff, an army to the south, and the storming ocean to the north. With no way out, our commander had decided that we make out last stand there. We charged, ready to meet our gods. I saw the whites of the enemy's eyes, felt his hot breath in the cold rain. As I lunged forward with my pike, lightning struck in the center of the battlefield. The flash was so bright, all I could see for the next minute was white light and vague, spinning shapes. As I came to, every man in the opposing army had fallen dead, yet no man of ours had been touched. Something saved us that day; it stole our glory from us."
The Battlefield Saint," It was going terribly. We had been inspired by our mighty and virtuous cause; every man was willing to die it. But everything that could go wrong did. Our standard bearer was struck down within minutes of first contact. The enemy had large mobile ballistas, and their vast swaths of archers rained arrows like a deadly hail. I myself remember the pain of an axe in my side, followed by a huge barista bolt piercing not only my chest, but also the chest of a fellow comrade behind me. Before I died, I only remember seeing a man in white standing atop the distant hill above the chaos. Then darkness. The next thing, I feel a warmth inside of me. I felt at peace. And I woke up, face down in the grass, black and red blood painted across the green canvas of the meadow. I looked at my injuries to find them missing, and searched the horizon back toward the hill. The figure in white was shining with brilliance, and I could feel my breath escape my lungs in awe. Then, with a flash of blue, a ring of energy burst across the landscape, and the figure vanished in a puff of smoke."
Behind the Dune," The sand i was standing on was damp and soaked with blood, suprisingly i saw no dead bodies. I prepared to cross the dune front of, but i wish i wouldnt have crossed it, because what i saw standing on top of that dune was strange and disturbing."
The humming oak tree," We were sitting around the camp fire preparing to rest for the night. When i suddenly saw something strange in the dark. It was a dim light moving rapidly in the dark. I tried to follow it but it vanished after several yards. When i tried find the location the light vanished i found an oak tree. Strangle there was coming a humming noise from inside the tree, i swung my handaxe at the tree and then a bright flash of light appeared."
The Raising of the Fallen," The battle went well for us. We thought that victory was at hand. Then their necromancers started raising the fallen to fight anew. It's hard enough to fight a soldier who feels nor pain nor fear, but it became harder still when they started raising the fallen from among our own ranks."
The Battle of Ninegrave," The battle went well for us. We could see victory at hand, until their necromancers approached the front. The fallen began to rise. Dead-eyed and resolute they advanced. It's hard enough to fight against soldiers who feel neither pain nor fear, and harder still when the corpse you strike down was once a friend."
The Shimmering Vale," I know not why it was called the Shimmering Vale. When we crossed through it the air tasted of ash and the wind kicked up dust devils at our feet. The horses died first. Then the men began to sicken. They withered, fluids would not take hold in them, yet they did not die. Pale and parched we had to leave them behind. As we slept they marched closer, moaning for water. As we fled they called out, pleading for mercy. As we weakened those who could not keep up were abandoned. I do not imagine the ends they met were dignified. They refused to lie beneath the ground. When the remnants of the company crested the mountains at the other end of the valley we did not stop. We did not talk of where we would go or what had happened. As one, we deserted. Some were captured and hung, but most returned home and have yet to leave. I know that I shan't."
The Red Border," On the hills I stand, looking down upon the long line of ground stained red. The other nation stands across from us, staring down the same valley. It is now I remember his words.. ""I saw my friends die, I saw my comrades fall, I saw the enemy defeated, and yet we were told to run. Everyday after I came back, looking for my friends, looking to make a grave. All I could find were their weapons and the ground, stained, soaking pure red. Fools. They can't see the omen, and won't leave the border be..."""
The Honorary Swordsmen who won't let the dead die," They all know her, in the middle of war she walks the battlefield without fear. Despite wanting for death, she is bound by her honor. The same honor that caused her to pick up her blade. When she locks swords with someone who can hold their own, their fight, their sounds cause those around them to quiet. As they stand in awe, the two warriors duel - an honorable duel. She tells them, ""Duel me with fairness, if I lose I will grant you unquestionable power."" ""And if you win?"" ""Then pledge to me your service, in life and death."" And so they duel. They say she has not lost, they know she still holds power they cannot dare approach. They all know her, when the battle is lost she walks forward on the battlefield without fear. As she stares down the armies, a comrade notices a weariness on her face. She draws her sword, and so springs forth from the ground the fallen that have lost to her. Each great warrior, all whom have pledged their service, in life, or death."
The Will-o-Wisp's Call," The call of the wisp has always about on the battlefield, calling to the strays as a guide. That night though, before we could even fight, they took half the army with them without a sound."
The Charm Plague," The whole of the army, each soldier, beginning at the front line and spreading out like fire in a field of dry grass, began to turn on their kinsmen. Brothers in arms, so many long years at each others sides, thick as thieves, now savagely eviscerating each other. A very clever wizard had toiled away in his workshop for many months devising this charm. It was an amendment to something known in arcane circles as Dominate Monster, commonly used to take command of a monsters mind and give it direction against it's will. The wizard had constructed a method by which the spell could cast itself. When a mind is charmed by this spell, the creature immediately turns to all in it's vicinity and casts the spell on them before turning ruthlessly aggressive and killing all in his sight. By this method the spell spreads virally throughout the army. The wizard, clever as he was, didn't not anticipate that the telepathic link between himself and the affected minds would be two-way. It can hardly be imagined the mental anguish and terror to which he succumbed as he felt one thousand minds worth of rage and regret."
The Circle of Feasting," The party happens upon a fairy ring in the forest. Since there are no actual Fey around, it seems to be simply a curiosity. Should anyone attempt to eat or drink within the circle, however, they will find that their food and drink has become cuisine fit for the most decadent of banquets. Upon leaving the circle, however, the food leaves a bitter, ashen taste in their mouths."
The Hills of Jars," Just under the rolling, grassy hills of Sucia Isle, a series of vast, labyrinthine warrens and warehouses waits. The stonework walls, ceilings, and floors appear to be ancient and caked with dust. Filling the tens and hundreds of rooms within the hills are large, earthenware jars, lined up by the thousands, their clay lids sealed with wax. The entrances and exits to these underground storehouses are warded with powerful glyphs, which have long since faded and gone dark with the ages."
Silence is Golden," This object is peculiar, taking the shape of a rolled ring of some strange, silvery material. At first glance, there is no immediate way to unroll it, but with adequate investigation, the end can be found, and the substance unrolled from the rest. The silver strips can be torn away with little effort, and will adhere to most dry surfaces, though they have no other effect."
The Tree of Runes," Deep beneath the earth, far removed from the most remote dwarven strongholds of the Shadowspire Mountains, there is a tree. Green and flourishing despite the lack of sun, the tree's roots reach deep and wide, breaking the cavern floor. Each of the tree's leaves bears a symbol that greatly resembles a rune in the Dwarven alphabet."
New Tricks," While hunting in the deep forest, a Ranger's dire wolf companion has unearthed a fossilized femur bone of prodigious size that oozes dark red liquid when touched."
Treasure's Quandary," A collector's prize relic has been publicly proved a forgery, but that hasn't stopped a zealous cleric from demanding it be 'returned' to the temple from which it was 'stolen'."
Ninety Lives," The neighbor's patch-furred, scarred old tom enjoys bringing the ravaged bodies of mice, rabbits and the occasional mimic spawnling to the steps of the outhouse, where the likelihood of meeting a bare foot in the middle of the night is at it's greatest. Lately, however, his prizes have included documents in foreign languages, gaudy jewelry, and the signet ring of a long-dead duke."
Sideways Time," A Wizard of some renown claims to have (re)discovered a new school of magic, but is unwilling to disclose any more until someone can prove that he isn't dead."
Serpent's Feather," The snakes that nest in the barren cliffs that skirt the Northern edge of the great desert are renowned for the deadly potency of their venom, and have been milked for generations in semi-religious ceremonies by Kobold mystics, who then sell vials of the stuff to the highest bidder on the shadow market. Lately, however, various cells in the loose network of assassin's guilds have reported that the last shipment of venom isn't nearly as effective as it once was, and a few incredibly thorough practitioners of the murderous arts have been overheard suggesting that it might actually have restorative powers."
Love the Bomb," In the quiet hamlet of Llywenshire, the well in the central square has served as the hub for the community for as long as anyone can remember. But after a sore-pocked and disease-ridden stranger clambered from its depths, shouting at anyone who would listen that 'SHE HAS AWOKEN' and 'THE END IS NIGH!', the villagers have begun to express concern."
The Bronze Candlestick," There is an old bronze candlestick on the mantle in the Rose Room at the Freewind Mage's Academy. Without fail, every morning, the caretaker finds the burnt stub of a candle in the bronze candlestick, even when there have been no guests in the Rose Room, and it has been locked all night. The caretaker has attempted to dispose of the bronze candlestick, but somehow it finds its way back to the room."
The Hopping Raven," Upon the gravestone of the beloved witch Lady Pinewall who succumbed to the blood plague, a raven hops up and down. When anyone approaches, the bird squawks ""SPEARS!"" and flies off, only to return once the coast is clear."
The Golden Cherry," At the center of the Royal Gardens is an old cherry tree that produces wonderful, sweet red cherries. In the history of the tree, it has produced a golden cherry three times. The first time, the prince who picked and ate the cherry died in battle the following morning. The second time, the kitchen maid who picked and ate the cherry died of a bad belly. The third time, the stable boy who picked the cherry and fed it to the pigs fell to his death from a hay loft that very night."
The Pig in the Chimney," At Garvil the Greenbeard's house, you'll hear an occasional squealing of a pig. The sound seems to be coming from his old stone chimney, but Garvil eats no meat and has never owned a pig. Sunny weather, stormy weather, crackling fire, or cold hearth, the squealing sound comes and goes as it pleases."
The Sun God's Feasthall," Way out in the desert in the ruins of the ancient city of Haz Alaf, there is a large stone table with stone benches still in its place in the feasthall of the Sun God. At noon on the day of the summer solstice every year, the table in the feasthall is filled with a traditional feast—pears and dates, figs and lentils, roast fox, buzzard's soup, braised drake, camel's milk cheese, toasted crickets, fried scorpions, honeyed wine, and mild tea. Ever since the discovery of the miracle, hundreds of pilgrims make the dangerous journey to Haz Alaf every late spring to witness the miracle."
The Black Castle," A black castle stands on the outskirts of a small town with strange customs regarding the dead, those that die are revered (think cattle in india). Word is the castle started out as nothing more than a pebble but has grown almost organically and they are willing to buy both the living and the dead for unknown reasons."
Circle of unhappiness," A round clearing in the middle of a vast forest. Nothing lay within, no grass, no trees, nothing but a single flower. Those entering will be faced with extreme dread and unhappiness to the point where they feel life no longer holds meaning for them. Even animals instinctively stay away."
Jar of Many Faces," A clay pot sits on the shelf, the visage inscribed on the jar stares back at you with an angry grimace. When next you glance in the pot's direction, you notice it's no longer frowning at you, but grinning."
Ring of Many Moods," Embedded in this small golden band is a single gem. When unworn, the gem is a pearly white. When worn, the gem shifts to one of many colours, ranging from the palest blue to jet black."
The Unfound Door," A door stands upright in the middle of a field, only visible from head-on. There is no frame or anything else to suggest it should be able to stand upright. When looked at from any other angle, it simply isn't there and may be passed through. The knob is locked and will not open for anyone."
Boiling Bog," A large pool of water within a marsh is bubbling and boiling and steaming for no discernible reason. Strangely, the water is cool to the touch."
Well Of Black Water," This strange well sits atop a hill. The water within is clear and inviting, but once a bucket is dipped into the well, the water within is turned black as tar and greasy, utterly undrinkable."
Icebrick Tower," In the middle of the scorching wastelands stands a tower of shimmering clear ice carved into the form of bricks. No matter how hot it is out, the ice will never melt, even though it always seems to be shimmering with melt water."
A Clear Circlet," In the Archbishop's parlor, on a mantle of dark wood, stands a circlet of beaten rose-gold. Across it stretches a translucent film similar to soapy water. Several of his guests have sworn they saw glimpses of strange lands, otherworldly places and in one case their own bedchamber inside it, but the Archbishop has never seen anything."
What do we find out there?," Last week, we made some resurrection and chosen one plot hooks, so it seems fitting that for this batch of mysteries we visit the supernatural and the strange. The plot hooks themselves suggest a way in which the story could move forward. In contrast, a mystery should lead the story astray. There need not be clear direction as to where a mystery may be heading. The mystery doesn't necessarily have to be solvable at all, but it should be interesting enough to appeal to some PCs. I'll post a few examples."
Ghost in the Brewery," The monks swear there is a helpful ghost lurking in the brewery. They attempted to drive it out twice before, only to have dozens of barrels of ale drained as they aged."
The Dancing Stars," For centuries astronomers have watched the Red Wanderer and the Morning Maiden as they cross the sky. This year, their paths would cross for the first time in record. For the last six months, they have ceased to follow their expected paths and have been turning circles around each other."
The Whispering Cave," Up in Simon's Pass through the mountains, there is a cave that is said to whisper the names of travelers as they pass. No one who has gone deeper into the cave than the entryway has ever returned."
The Old Moon Ship," Every full moon, a ship with red sails is spotted off the coast of Tarrycliff. No one in the village knows whose ship it is."
The Reaching Meadow," Deep in the Haunted Forest there is a small clearing along the road covered in what at first appears to be tall grass. On your approach, you'll see that what you took for grass is in fact a patch of hundreds of long, thin tentacles, gently swaying together as if caught in a breeze."
A Singular Duet," There is a singer named Bertram who often performs in the Customs Plaza by day and at the Cat and Goat in the evenings who sings the loveliest duets, taking on both the high-pitch and the low-pitch parts, making both voices harmonize from his golden throat at once. When asked how he manages both the low and the high parts, Bertram insists with a smile that he doesn't sing the low parts, his infernal master does. If you ask to speak to his infernal master, Bertram laughs and lightly says, ""What master?"""
The Fey Baker," The best bakery in the city by far is The Faery's Child, an idyllic little affair on an out-of-the-way back alley. They've got a little something for everyone, it seems. The proprietor, a lean, middle-aged elven man, is perfectly warm and welcoming, and only too happy to hand out samples to new customers. There's just one problem: nobody has ever seen anyone deliver supplies to make the baked goods he sells."
The Day of Jubilee," For one day every fifty years, every piece of currency and every gemstone in the country begins to rapidly transmute itself. Diamonds become turquoise become rubies become quartz; gold coins become coppers, which turn into platinum pieces. Trade becomes either impossible or completely possible; the more conservative merchants will close their doors to avoid being taken in, while the risk-takers will speculate and gather as many of the rapidly changing coins and jewels as possible. At the stroke of midnight, however, the transformations stop. Many a beggar has been made a rich man by the contents of his alms cup... and vice-versa."
The Invisible Boatmobile," Smack in the middle of a bustling town square is a place where nobody seems to walk--because there's a ship there. At least, it feels like a ship; while one can feel the planks and grip the anchor chain, to all observing eyes, the thing is invisible. The fact that it stands straight up while on land is a somewhat lesser miracle."
Sister Goldenhair," Tales tell that the king's daughter has the most beautiful golden hair. Tales are right; her hair is actually made of spun gold. Needless to say, she is kept under lock and key in the castle, and every ounce of shed or cut hair is whisked away to the treasury before you can say ""exploitation."" One evening, a member of the party receives a letter by raven, pleading for rescue. There is no signature, but inside the folded paper are three strands of the finest gold."
A Tailor's Secret," A renowned purveyor of bespoke ettersilk clothing owns a four-way mirror that reflects only the most flattering angles and poses. Lately however, some customers report seeing long-lost relatives lurking behind their reflections, aggressively wielding long knives."
Lights in the Belfry," The tower of an abandoned church has regular nocturnal visitors that make no secret of their comings and goings, but the local village is hesitant at best to acknowledge it."
Fifteen Souls of Silver," Soon after receiving shipment of soul silver jewelry, the scale in Pyfford's Fyne Goods gained a new, unlabeled dial that only seems to change when used by certain members of the community, most of whom seem just as baffled by the addition as Dame Pyfford herself."
The Gloam in the Loam, A farmer digging for peat in the moors near his farm finds a buried door that opens into the parlor of a shady vampire-staffed gambling house a continent away.
Unwinking," After smoke from a forest fire turns the sun and moon blood red, local children start to mark ashy third eyes on their foreheads and will only speak in whispers."
"Mine, all mine!"," On the anniversary of a devastating cave-in, the runecog ore carts that had been lost within the mine trundle up from the deep, overladen with blood-stained ore."
Innkeeper's Daughter," Hrothman Togg is a pious man if there ever was one, and he keeps a clean establishment that caters to Clerics, Paladins, and other men (and occasionally women) of the cloth. Imagine his surprise when his daughter, a beautiful young woman, reveals that she's pregnant, and she doesn't know who the father is. Even more concerning to the community, however, is that up to a few days ago, Hrothman Togg didn't have a daughter."
The Help," A wealthy baroness has accused her staff of stealing the silver, and the local guard has been called in to handle the matter. What starts as suspicion quickly becomes confusion when it becomes apparent that the entire staff - supposedly nearly three hundred people - is actually one man in a vast array of costumes."
A Plague of their Own," And now for the puns! When the local women's Turnipball team grows ill right before a big game, their coach (and manager) is at wit's end. After a truly inspired pep talk, he gets them onto the field... but within minutes both teams are doubled over in pain. Now most of the league is sick, and the men's teams are refusing to play."
One Cue Over the Cuckoo's Nest," A small time hustler comes into possession of a staff that greatly increases his prowess in just about everything, especially billiards. Unfortunately for him, the staff is sentient, lawful good, and loudly repeats private conversations at the least convenient times."
Chum Like it Hot," (Part of) a missing nobleman turns up at fishmonger's quay after a particularly large tuna disgorges his signet ring, still worn on a severed finger. The bereaved family requests it back, and after a short period of mourning, the nobleman's son is named as the head of the house. Spectators at the event can't help but notice that the son now sports six fingers on his right hand, one of which is sickly white, pale, and wears the family signet."
Sleepless in Sea Cattle," A poleman on a garbage barge is swept into the river during a flash flood, and is saved by an aggregation of manatees. Now, several weeks later, he feels a strange urge to bathe in the brackish water of the bay, eat aquatic plant life, and headbutt boats. Even worse, his normally athletic physique is quickly becoming rotund, and his skin has become a rather unattractive gray."
Oh Danny," The moaning woman by the fountain that everyone walks past has a drawing of a young boy's face. It's her boy, Danny, and he's missing. Everyone has given up hope on finding him since he disappeared, but not her. This boy is everything to her, and now her husband, daughter, and best friend all won't speak to her anymore. Why?"
The Hunter of the Wood," The Baron of these lands set a Hunter to the task of ridding hid hunting wood of a terrible thing that has killed those unfortunate enough to happen across it. Some are found with terrible teeth marks, others with wide, horrible gashes. Many are never seen again. And the Hunter has been gone for three weeks."
The Lies We Tell Ourselves," The civil war between the Knights of this land and their forefathers, a paladinic order of tyrannical good, was only a Generation ago. But why can't anyone remember it clearly, or speak about it in detail? Do they fear plainly saying it, or have they really forgotten such a thing? How could they have naturally forgetten?"
The Lost Battle," The PCs come across a recent battlefield. Long enough ago that most of the bodies are gone, but arms and armour still litter the ground. However, none of the locals know about any battle, there are no stories about it, and the coats of arms and banners are unknown in the area."
The Boatman," Once a year a strange hooded figure poles a boat onto a certain dock. There is always one person who goes over to board it. Witnesses might say they looked afraid, relieved, or befuddled. The boat leaves, and that person is never seen again."
The Ghost Dragon," An apparition of a huge dragon appears whenever there is a lunar eclipse. It acts out the same scene each time - a titanic battle against an unseen foe. Finally it comes to rest at an abandoned plot of land where there are some ruins, and nothing grows."
The Vagabond Merchant," There are stories of a merchant you meet on the road, with a covered wagon decorated in painted vines and scenes of frolicking pixies. The merchant offers you a sale of a wondrous item, then, whether you buy or no, will ride on, vanishing when you look away for a moment, although you can still hear the hooves of the horse. Bad luck comes to those who see the merchant; if they buy, the item will doom them, if they don't, they find themselves in a situation where only that item would have saved them. Some say there is something you can say to the merchant that will make them leave you in peace."
The Lost Prince," The Crown Prince has vanished from his rooms at the palace. Nobody saw him leave, and no divination has found a trace, either of him or foul play. The only thing left was an exotic rose not from this continent and a note saying ""We must talk"" in elegant handwriting."
The Best Pies," The baker in town makes the best pies. The best. Everyone loves his pies. When people ask for his recipe, he just taps his nose and winks. Why are his pies so good?"
This Isn't Mine," One of the PCs wakes up one morning with a stone in their shoe. The stone turns out to be a flawless diamond, with the hint of something glinting in its depths. From time to time, people will come up to the PCs claiming the diamond is stolen, but when they see it they will go pale, give it back, and it isn't the diamond they were looking for."
Blood Skies," The skies turn blood red one night, as if blood were flowing over the dome of the sky. Everyone is talking about it for months later, even monsters who would otherwise simply attack the party."
The Bunyip," The local children have a communal imaginary friend, it seems. The ""Bunyip"" lives in a local ox-bow lake, in a small piece of abandoned ground near the village. The Bunyip occasionally takes the children to his underwater house, they say, and gives them presents. The presents appear to be sea-shells, which is odd, given the sea is many miles away."
The Maw," There is a local cave - not particularly mysterious until now. People used to shelter in it from the rain, or camp there when travelling to the next town. However, yesterday it suddenly changed into a carved likeness of an unknown monster with a huge, gaping maw. The locals would quite like the PCs to investigate."
The Tower In The Thicket," There is a forest of impenetrable Blood-Thorns. On dark moonless nights, what appears to be lights in a tower can be seen, about a mile into the thicket, on a hill."
Death Coins," Last night, all the portraits of the current king on all the coins of the realm changed to a hideous shrieking skull. Even the dies in the mint changed."
Strange Harvest," The day before Harvest Day, one field in the village appears to harvest itself overnight. It's always a different field, and seems random. No matter how careful a guard is placed, one field is always harvested without anyone seeing how or who."
Draconic Surprise," Every dragon or draconic creature seems surprised to see one of the PCs. No matter what they were doing, as soon as they see that PC they will start, and look at them with astonishment. ""It can't be..."""
The Blinking Signal," At noon everyday for one week of the year, a bright light can be seen blinking at the top of a cliff miles away. It looks like a reflection, but nobody knows what's causing it."
The Sleep of Youth," At the same time every afternoon, every child in this small village becomes incredibly lethargic for ten minutes or so. It is possible to keep them awake, but they all try to sleep the duration. The town has grown used to the effect and treats it as part of daily life."
Old Snarefoot," Deep in the woods, a creature is rumored to subsist entirely off of unwary travelers that it catches with its worn rope hands. According to the locals, there was an overzealous hangman many years ago, but no one knew what became of him when he was accused of treason."
Autumn Down," In the fall, trees in the King's Forest lose their leaves. Instead of standing bare, however, they grow fluffy grey down, then luxurious feathers as the winter progresses. It has been this way for centuries."
Snake Oil," Rekbar Otis is one of the land's greatest merchants. He has sold sand to camels, ice to vikings, and now, he's trying to con the good people of Randrenvale out of their gold with a miracle tincture. This time, it seems like it could be the real deal..."
Bard's Pass," None who come through the Bard's Pass, the only route between two mountain villages, emerge unchanged. Every living being that comes through the pass leaves with a newfound appreciation for music and a freshly tuned lute."
The Spirals That Follow," Out of the blue, dark red spirals appear wherever the players are. They seem to be organic in nature, twitching, breathing, sometimes even screaming. Their sudden appearance only seems to be noticed by the players, though. The pillars seem to have a weird effect on townsfolk and other figures around though. Nobody seems to be willing to acknowledge their existence, even when interacting without. ""Okay, so you're seeing the pillars, right?"" ""Yes."" ""And you're still saying they don't exist?"" ""... Yes"""
The Cave," Next to a small town there is a cave that leads deep, deep into the hills. What lays at it's very depths is unknown, however, as seemingly every twist and turn people make them end up outside again, leaving through the very entrance they came in through."
The Element of Surprise," There is a cathedral where a mythical creature resides. Some say it's a living anvil, with teeth and a tongue that devour every adventure that nears, others claim it's a demon possessing the shadow of however enters, to kill it's owners. In all reality, it's a Suprise Elemental, a monster that without form, without reason. Only appearing when nobody is expecting it, always in the form that's least expected."
The Siren Song of the Crypt, Rumors of hauntingly beautiful music carrying through the night have been cropping up around the town crypt. All of the townspeople who claim to have heard it seem happy to discuss their lovely new nighttime lullaby.
The Fighters," Recently brawls at the local tavern have increased in their frequency and ferocity. People once known to be jovial, mellow, or sad drunks now turn on their friends with abandon at night. Curiously, people known to have a temple while drinking have now simmered down, and all involved seem unaffected during their daily lives, aside from nursing their fresh injuries."
The Foresters' Plenty," The town's loggers refuse to travel more than a league into the forest, but the lumber they return with is far too dense to be young growth, and it burns with an unusual ferocity. They've been following the same logging trails for as long as anyone can remember, and refuse to show them to outsiders."
The Weirding Well," There is a well in the ruins of a town in a nearby glade. Legends and folktales abound about the strange sights and sounds around the well, and the countless brave souls who went to investigate only to return empty handed."
Call for Justice," Every night following the burial of a poor soul who died under questionable circumstances, a shrill but source-less cry for justice rings through the graveyard until the wee hours of the morning."
The case of the Baker," Every morn' before the sun is risen. Fresh, warm bread appears in the village. This impoverished village has no baker, nor a proper oven. Too far from the city to maintain its warmth, the masterwork bread that appears... Only where none are looking."
Schroedinger's Kid," Street urchins are a common sight in large cities. But this one strikes you as odd, you could have sworn you saw his corpse they day before, once again a week before that, and a month before that. And yet he still plays in the street."
The Restarting Village," A common village by looks. Every time one visits a sense of deja vu is felt. When an outsider approaches, all continues as normal. When all outsiders leave, all goes back to the beginning."
The shifting Church," A quiet corner of town a church stands, every morning it worships a different god, with different disciples and a drastically different interior."
The Flash," Some evenings right before the end of sunset, as the top of the sun rests on the horizon. Strong flashes of light travel across the horizon, in perfect time and always the same direction."
The Roving Fairy Ring," Fairy rings are a common sight, however this one moves several meters a day. It seems to have a path and ones who care for the mushrooms are said to be blessed with good fortune."
Tangled hair house," An odd boarding house atop a hill, many visit, only those with short hair are ever seen to leave."
The grocer on the corner," An old man running the grocer on the corner, never seen to leave. Nor any supplies ever arrive, the shop is however fully stocked regardless of how much custom he has."
The painted man," Many have told this story. In a painting one sees a man staring out at them from the background, this crude figure will then be seen again and again. From other art to graffiti to drawings by children this figure is seen."
The screaming hospital children," The hospital is plagued in the darkest parts of the night by the screams of children. The wards sleep soundly. Many have searched for the source of the screams, but they seem to come from all around."
The Kings Sun," Visitors of the King's castle note that the sun always shines behind him. In the magnificent stained glass throne room the Kings face is always drowned out by the sun behind him. Even in clouds or low sun, the room is always lit the same."
The Upward Path," A stretch of road in the middle of nowhere, objects roll uphill, caravans are to superstitious to use it."
The Upward Falls, A waterfall in the deep jungle that flows upstream. Leads to a plateau that seems otherwise inaccessible.
The Empty Brothel," The brothel in town is always empty, all day every day. Many claim to be patrons and speak well of it."
The Personal Library," A small library, with no librarian. Any book taken disappears after a day. Always seems to have the books one desires."
The Statue of Tears," A statue in town. It appears to cry when looked at. When too many stare, the tears become blood."
The Squalid Soup Pot," A huge pot in an impoverished slum, it is ate from constantly but never seems to empty. Many find the contents disgusting."
The River Woman," The rivers here run fast, a popular place for many to end their lives. However many who come for that reason see a woman across the river, the woman has a face of anguish. The observers of this woman become overrun with guilt and return home."
The Fire in the Desert," This desert is a vast an empty place, barely a cactus breaks up the rolling dunes. During the night a faint orange glow is seen behind many of the dunes."
The Bottle in the ship," The port has reported from time to time, and empty boat floats into harbor. In the boat, a single bottle of what appears to be wine rests in the center. None have dared to taste it, and the bottles only build up."
The call of the past," A opening in the trees, just outside the settlement, odd sounds can be heard. People hear what they heard before the last time they slept."
Case of the vanished people," In the village of Oxhead, housing 50 people, every day someone is missing, without trace. The next day, they're back, not remembering being gone at all and completely unchanged, and a new person has disappeared."
Riddle of the masked man," Every morning at sunrise a masked person walks into town straight from the north, stands perfectly still until sunset, and walks on towards the south. He reappears the next day."
The lone rancher," Out in the countryside there's a large grain farm, easily one of the largest in the area. Only a single person is found at the farm at work; an old emaciated man with long white beard. The farm runs splendidly and the old man insists he needs no help running it."
Come little children," Yesterday, three children went into the woods to collect berries and did not return. During the night, a foul abysmal odour unlike anything imaginable permeated the town. The next day, the children came back... nine years older."
The Rain of Cadavers, One night the inhabitants of the town of Bargrund woke up to see the carcasses of dead cows raining down on them from a clouded sky. The dead cows cause much damage and injury to structures and people and the clouds have a violet tint to them.
Case of the Eyes," An unblinking humanoid eye the size of a football has appeared on people's doors on the side turning in, rooted into the wood by black tendrils. The eyes do nothing but stay where they are. Unblinking."
The King's Crown," The royal crown of the palace belonging to a long line of monarchs has a habit of getting lost. It appears at random spots in the palace all the time, and disappears from where you last put it."
Cookies to the people," This winter morning, every household in the entire realm woke to find a pile of cookies somewhere in the house. Even beggars, thieves, cultists and homeless people got them. They are quite delicious."
Gambling hazards," Recently, the gamblers in town have experienced that every time a die rolls a 1, the next rolls automatically are 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 without fail. The die then behaves normally until another 1 is rolled. No-one knows what this means."
The sleeping giant, A cloud giant appeared in the town square two months ago and has been sleeping ever since. All attempts to wake her has failed. She still breathes but hasn't moved.
Colour of love," Every morning, a rose sprouts from the ground at a random spot in the city. Anyone and everyone within 60 feet of the rose fall in love with the last person they laid eyes upon. Every day the rose is in a new place."
The Silence of the Rats," Recently, all rats in town has turned completely and utterly silent. No sound when they move, no squeaks or padding of rat feet. Nothing."
The Tireless Spinning Wheel," Across the river in a secluded grove, there is a rickety spinning wheel doing its work. Clackety clack! Clackety clack! It yields no thread, only the omnipresent sound...Clackety clack! Clackety clack!"
The Broken Puppet, A traveling merchant has an intricate puppet that he refuses to sell. The puppet shares many of the same physical characteristics as the merchant. Did it just move?
Holey Moly," A hole suddenly appears on the outskirts of a small village with a pole of dirt next to it. As the villagers begin filling it with dirt, another hole begins to appear elsewhere in the village, at the same rate that the old one is being filled."
The Shadowed Sundial, The village sundial's shadow has suddenly frozen in place. It doesn't react to any light sources cast upon it.
Terrible Turnips," Why does all the food here taste like turnips?! Give me back that sweet, succulent, turkey-leg taste!"
Prisoner's Dilemma," A pair of non-identical twin prisoners have just been delivered to the city jail. Every night, they seem to switch cells, despite being kept on completely different levels."
"Hook, Line, & Sinker"," The local fishing hole has dried up overnight, and the fishermen are distraught. But now fish are turning up in the most outlandish places, like Archibald's bathwater and pierced atop Helga's weathervane!"
Groundhog Day, There's a small settlement where the inhabitants do the exact same thing every day at the same time. Like clockwork.
Spick & Span, I never bother doing dishes anymore. Especially since they are spotless when I wake up!
See Right Through You, There is a small boy whose skin is gradually becoming more translucent. Every day it seems that he is harder and harder to see. It's happening to others now too...
The Empty Schooner," A fully-stocked ship docks in the harbor. Nobody is onboard, but there are may signs of recent activity like dirty plates, half-swabbed decks, etc."
Candelabra Capers," There is an old candelabra in the bell-tower that is bolted to the table. Whenever somebody enters the room, all of the candles become lit until the person exits. Any attempt to put out the flames only cause them to burn brighter."
The Blank Book," There is a book that goes completely blank after you read it. Everybody reads something different, but it is always very personal and analogous to that person's life."
The Final Chime," The bells chime as you would expect during the day, but come midnight... It is always the same. Eight chimes. A pause, then bong... bong... bong... THUNK"
The Hungry Book," Attempting to write in this book is futile, as anything written in the tome slowly fades away, no matter how much ink is used, until it is blank again. Oh, and once it's done absorbing the ink it smacks its pages as if they were lips, quite a disconcerting sight."
The Razor Road," This apparently plain cobblestone road in the forest looks innocent enough, but walk upon it, and it will feel as if you were walking on a bed of nails."
The Midnight Well," Most of the time, this well gives out perfectly good drinking water. Sometimes however, the pail will return from the depths of the well filled with a viscous black liquid..."
The Inn's Worst Bed," If you are desperate enough for a place to sleep, this average looking bed will do, but you will invariably be visited that night by dreams of drowning in a sea of insects."
A Curious Statue," ""Wot, the statue? It's reckon'd ta be the towns founder. Weird how it always looks like its facing you innit! The tricks carvers can pull with perspective these days..."""
The Conundrum of the Cat," Wherever the party goes, one of their number keeps seeing the same black cat. It's impossible it can be a coincidence, for the cat they keep seeing has a distinct crescent of white fur on its forehead. No matter how hard they look, they never spot it following them from place to place, and if they search they never find it hiding amidst the wagons of any caravan they might join. But no matter where they travel (even on other planes), no matter how quickly they manage to get there (even by teleportation), it is always there first. Every time it appears, the situation is such that the only person who has line of sight to the cat is the one character who always sees it. To the other characters the cat is a mere figment, and a cause for worry about the mental health of their friend."
The Enigma of the Evil Eye," The city of Skarsdale is cursed; the symbol of the Evil Eye keeps appearing around the city. Burned into a wooden windowsill. As frost on a window in winter. Baked into bread. Items knocked over fall into the shape of it. It's never done deliberately (who would do that?) and it's appearances are seemingly random, all except one. Every morning, without exception, the eye is daubed in blood on the city-facing wall of Skarsdale Castle, above the drawbridge. Even when watched all night, the mark appears as if by magic - but no magic is detected."
The Mystery of the Melody," A song can be heard drifting across the city at night, but only by a handful of people. Without fail, those people abandon their lives the very next morning to go off and realise their unfulfilled dreams."
The Obfuscation of the Occult," On the third day of the third week of each month, spellcasters throughout the kingdom mysteriously misremember all their lore, spells, and rituals. Any attempt to use magic on this day results in mayhem, and may possibly be dangerous (treat as wild magic surge)."
The Problem of the Pants that Walked," The people of Hollowbrook have a problem - they are running out of clothes. As of a week ago, any clothes left unworn (for instance, when hanging to dry after being washed) rise up into the air, pulling and allowing themselves to be ripped if need be to escape. They gather together as raggamoffyns (constructs composed of scraps of cloth - see The 3rd edition Monster Manual II or google for more info)."
The Puzzle of the Pupils," The little mountain town of Urmster is a happy one. Everyone is friendly, and treats each other like family. It seems idyllic, and a visitor has a perfectly wonderful time there, enjoying the ambience, the hot springs, and the many beautiful local walks. Yet a perceptive visitor may notice,ever so occasionally, the glimpse of something strange in the pupils of the townsfolk. Here one minute, gone the next, it's easy to think you imagined it: the very image of the townsperson, reflected in their own eye."
The Quandary of the Queue," While passing through town one day, the party see a queue of people backed up from a door in the wall. There is no signage to suggest what might be beyond the door. Hundreds of people are waiting to get in, and the queue goes right round the corner of the street. When they return this way they see the queue looking just as long. Close observation shows that every time someone goes through the door, which happens every two minutes and thirty seven seconds another person joins the back of the queue. Furthermore, they are the same people, on a repeating cycle. Yet no one comes out of the door and there is no rear entrance. If they try to get closer to the door to see what's inside, the people in the queue accuse them of queue-jumping and get belligerent, forming up as a mob to prevent the PCs skipping the line. If the party back up, they return exactly to their correct places in the queue."
The Question of the Queen's Betrothal," The Queen is getting married! The only thing is, no one seems to know where her mysterious suitor Lord Abgarde came from, and no one even seems curious. The party are sought out by one of the castle's kitchen maids, who was away from the town caring for her dying father on the night the engagement was announced. When she returned to the castle, she found it was as though Lord Abgarde had always been there and everyone thought his engagement to the The Queen had lasted an entire year. Only she could see things as they truly were. The party, like everyone else in the city, have false memories regarding the bethrothal (ideally set this up so that the players themselves have no reason to believe her. Do this WAY in advance by feeding them news from the castle, or if they visit, letting them see Lord Abgarde. They should really question whether or not these memories are false)."
The Riddle of the Raider's Ship," The people of Greenvale woke morning to find their sheep grazing contentedly around the hull of a sailing vessel with the flag of the East Island Raiders, mysterious transported onto the chalk downs. The pirate crew were all dead, their bodies each laid out on the grass nearby, one hand outstretched Eastward - perhaps toward the ocean, fully five hundred miles away. The Raiders spoils was left untouched in the cargo hold, and a scrawled note pinned to one of the chests by dagger: Though these men will wrong you yet You must see and not forget Their captain will be your own get Heed this lesson or your fates are set."
The Secret of the Sauce," After tasting the meatballs at a particular roadside inn, Ikea's Table (named after the fabled table of the goddess of home and hearth, Ikea) the party feel compelled to return there as regularly as possible for more of the dish. If asked why it is so good, the innkeeper's wife (also the cook) will only say that it's all thanks to her secret sauce. There is nothing magical about the food."
The Tree of Justice," There's a single grave outside town, beneath a tree, the hanging tree. The grave the only person from town to ever commit a murder in the town's history. But now every morning, a new member of town is hanging from the tree......"
Fire Wyrm," The lights come in the fog, always with the fog, like a great wyrm from the mountains, and then the town that sees them is no more. Rumour says the Wyrm is moving closer to the city. (13th Warrior Weeee)"
Pants!?," No one in town owns any pants, every time someone brings a pair they disappear by the next morning. The tailor has completely given up making new pairs."
The Wishing Well," The well in town is said to grant a wish to those who are deserving, but everyone who has had their wish be granted, is changed.... What price have they paid?"
Ghost Town," The town is completely empty, but everything carries on as normal. Doors open and close, the ovens are fired up and bread is made, the forges and kitchens, everything is working. But there are no people....."
The Harp of Eternity," The music of a harp emanates from a tower just outside of town. The people of the town report they've never heard the harp stop their entire lives, even the elders recall it from the day they were born. They say that the no one has ever heard it stop, for decades before any of them were alive."
Fountain of Sacrifice," In the center of town is a fountain that never empties and is constantly running, every morning a small puddle of blood has been found near it. But recently the puddle's have been getting larger and the homeless population has been shrinking."
Laughing Disease," Everyone who enters the city starts to laugh uncontrollably, only the locals are immune, and they violently expel any outsiders and rob them of all their possessions. All the while screaming about how it's not funny, and the laughter is an insult to them, and this is their punishment for mocking the town."
The Talking Dogs," The town is populated by sentient talking dogs, they go about their business as any normal town would, but every night as the bell tolls midnight the entire town is filled with human screaming and canine howling."
Alchemist's Punishment," The town is completely empty, in the center lies a single vial filled with crimson liquid, tracks in the dirt all lead to this vial from every direction then stop, with none leading away. Above the Vial a sign says, the guilty shall suffer."
The Burning Pillar, A 300ft high pillar of flame has burst out from where a house used to stand in the city. No one remembers who lived in the house or what it looked like.
The Shallow Mine," Miners go in, resources come out, but if you walk into the mine, it deadends about 50ft. down the shaft, and there are no veins to be seen."
The Extra Child," A mother calls her children home, ""Peter! Mary! Estelle! Cobb! It's dinnertime! She stands at the door and waits. Three children enter the house. Satisfied, the mother closes the door. This happens every night."
The Dead Strangers," There is a village where, once a month, a corpse shows up, strung up in the town square. The corpse is not identifiable, but no one in the village is missing."
The Silver Raven," You wake up covered in blood in a room full of corpses. You have a small silver raven trinket that you've never seen before on your person. You don't remember the past 6 hours. Everywhere you go, ravens are everywhere, staring at you."
Merchant's Incense," A merchant is selling incense that he claims never runs out, a claim that appears to be true, as he has ever-burning incense on display at his shop. No one ever buys the incense."
The Mirror Painting," There is a painting. If a person spends at least five minutes looking into it, the painting changes to a painting of that person."
The Death Carriage," An unmanned carriage runs the same route indefinitely. If anyone touches it, they immediately die."
Masquerade," Once a year, everyone in the town puts on masks and throws a huge party. Everyone in town denies this ever happens when questioned. There is no evidence that it happens, either."
Forest Circles," Deep in the forest, if one looks hard enough, one can find perfectly arranged circles of trees. Attempts to return to the same location inevitably fail, but other circles always show up in places they weren't before."
The Case of the Mysterious Case," After a successful tavern-crawl (after a successful dungeon-crawl), the party finds a leather-wrapped present waiting for them in their living quarters. It has a heart on it. ""What... kind of... leather... wait, did the package just blink?"""
The Book of Confusion," A book is found in a king's library, but upon first examination, there are no words upon the pages. After flipping through the pages for a certain amount of time, the reader cannot tear themselves away from the book, nor attempt to communicate what is inside the book. If the book is taken away from the reader, the reader will usually kill themselves within a month."
The Whistler," As you stroll through the forest, you hear a faint whistling tune. Upon following the tune, you meet a man with his back turned to you. Upon saying hello, he will turn around and greet you warmly. The only problem is, the man has no lips."
The Unmanned Tavern," No spell can detect why or how the patrons drinks get filled, but whenever they aren't looking, they always look back with their drinks filled and their pockets a piece lighter."
The Case of the Open Windows," The party has been in a town frequently and they've been hearing about prominent figures in the locality suddenly dying of blunt force trauma. The only real connection between all of them, besides them being well known in the town, is the open window in the room they're found."
The Unreadable Books," In the castle library, the words inside books have been vanishing, replaced by unreadable messages in unknown symbols; more books change each day; comprehend Language spells result in psychic backlash against caster; assistant scribe hid in library overnight, heard sounds of scratching and moaning coming from books, saw nothing."
The Tree Haters," Wild-eyed travellers, arriving from the east road, urge everyone they meet to cut down trees before it is too late; shudder in horror if asked for details; grab axes and assail local trees if locals unwilling, will not stop unless physically restrained."
The Darkness of Gravedigger's Cave," In a Gravedigger's Cave behind the cemetary outside town, all light sources fail, light spells fizzle, darkvision sees black-and-white television static."
The Offering of the Ants," Uncountable thousands of ants descend on town, pick up bread crumbs, sugar, or other food, vanish through cracks in earth leading to appropriate local dungeon."
The Leering Portraits," Inhabitants of castle report seeing subjects of paintings moving out of the corners of their eyes, making rude gestures and then snapping back to normal poses when examined."
The Ritual of the Vanishing Children," Local ritual requires that every nine years, a brave child volunteer to enter the holy of holies in the Temple to the Unknown God. The children who enter are never seen again."
The Petrified Dragons," There are tales of a nigh-inaccessible ledge, high in the mountains, from which it is possible to see the shapes of two impossibly lifelike gargantuan stone dragons locked in vicious combat, clinging to a cliff where no sculptor could have reached."
The Inscrutable Judge," Locals fear and revere an ancient marble statue of a stern headsman, that stands beside the road at one end of the only bridge in miles. Most travellers pass without incident, but in one in a thousand cases the statue springs angrily to life and decapitates a horrified passerby with its enormous razor-edged stone axe, before settling back into its previous pose. No pattern has yet been found in these attacks."
The Coin Sowers," A village has been blessed for many years with unusually bountiful harvests, even while other farmland nearby has been struck with famine. The villagers attribute their success to an unusual custom -- they sow copper coins along with their grain. No one knows what happens to the coins themselves."
The Blurry Adventures," The Lord Mayor of Hih-ven has suddenly started turning blurry. The Witch doctor outside the edge of town points to a Druidic cult. The Cult points to a well-regarded psychiatrist in the town proper. The psychiatrist thinks that the Mayor has been fairly unsure of himself lately. Who's lying, and what happens when he turns too blurry..."
The Adjudicator," A wizard is willing to give the highest bidder her greatest desires and wishes. What is on auction? The bidders' hopes, dreams, sanity, loved ones, life, and lineage. Who are the contestants? Who is the wizard? What are the shadowy figures backstage?"
Red Dream," Last night, the party had a strange dream. A plump man in crimson and gold robes stood in the middle of a village chanting inaudibly. In the middle of the keep around you, there is a shiny bright green half-helm the size of a merchant wagon burning high into the sky. The standards around you show a field of blue with a white and black tower. A crowd chants, ""Nemesio, Nemesio, Nemesio"" in a building crescendo. You all awake, and the sky has turned red as far as you can see."
Sing song ding dong," Everyone in the little village is all smiles, day and night. The town sings and dances to a tune no-one in the party can hear, performing on the streets, in impromptu fashion, before going back to their daily duties humming and shaking to the beat. The birds chirp in tune, and the bushes rustle like shakers when the wind blows just right. What's the name of the bard they keep repeating in the song? The one with the incredibly rhyme-able name?"
Stoneveil," A small town of gorgeous, porcelain-skinned people, nestled in a mountain's foothills has been shaken with the sudden petrification of some of the pillars of the community."
Virtue," One night a month, a ghostly violin can be heard peeling in the distance, near the village graveyard. Some have said the dead rise to dance to the tune, leading the rest to stay away."
The Self-made Man," A humanoid figure can be seen sculpting himself out of the clay on a nearby riverbank over the course of each day. When questioned, he replies that he's very busy at the moment but would be happy to chat once he's done. At dusk, he gives a final sigh of satisfaction before stiffening and toppling over, usually breaking into many pieces from the fall."
Weeping Willows," A small copse of trees stands in a desolate old field full of dried grasses. From each long branch drips a golden, sweet fluid that is warming and rejuvenating to the taste. Any who drink it directly from the tree are unusually productive for 24 hours, followed by 48 hours of depression and desolation. Bottling the fluid removes this effect, though it retains the taste of sweet morning dew."
Constructing Materials," A town is being slowly deconstructed, brick-by-brick, with each piece of material floating slowly north to a large, orderly pile of similar material. Each day a brick or two is taken, and the townsfolk have become experts at shoring up and repairing the damage."
Parabol," Small, presumably fae-creatures have been glimpsed walking through the nearby woods at night. Each one's passage is followed by bizarre, screeching music and only their vivisected corpses have ever been found."
The Hall of Inverse Reactions," Tazniss Alley is a street in the slums of a large city. All emotional reactions are inverted there. Insults and crimes are met with generosity, while favors and compliments invoke disgust and outrage. Tragedies bring joy and good news causes despair."
The Antimagic Masks Case," Two professors from the local academy were found dead on a hill, wearing winter robes despite the summer heat and masks warded against magic. One held a note: ""Fourth hour: Meet at the hill; Sixth hour: Ingest potions; await signal; don masks"""
The Imaginary Killer," A week ago a family moved into town whose daughter has an imaginary friend named Mr. Daggers. Every day since then, a child has come home sobbing and shaking, swearing that their imaginary friend has been stabbed to death by a dagger-wielding killer."
The Faceless Mayor," Every one in town has met the mayor, but can't provide a single detail about their appearance. The locals joke about their leader's nondescript looks, but a few questions will make it apparent that their mayor is literally indescribable."
The Very Heavy Box," As a merchant was driving his wagon through town last week, a box fell from it and landed in the middle of the road. The locals have tried moving the obstruction, but though it seems to be a normal wooden box, it can't be opened and can't be moved."
The Backward Chain," The town is in a panic, as its food chain has been reversed. Cats are chasing dogs, rats are chasing cats, field mice and snakes are somehow dragging hawks out of the sky, and the townspeople find themselves hunted by all manner of game and cattle."
The Growing Houses," The town's buildings are slowly growing from their tops, at a rate of about one story per fortnight. No doors lead to the new rooms, but entering through the windows with a ladder will reveal that the completed stories are furnished and show signs of use."
Bardic Synchronicity," The city's twelve bards are having a feud. ""The Dreamer's Ditty"" is the city's most popular new song, first heard in twelve separate inns on the same hour of the same night, but each inn's bard claims to have written it, and all appear sincere."
The Third Ear," Everything known to any of the town's children is known to all of the town's children. The children see nothing unusual about this, explaining matter-of-factly that they ""hear from each other"" through their ""third ears."""
Back in a Little While," Throughout the town, seemingly happy people have been telling loved ones ""wait for me a while"" or ""I'll be back in a bit,"" then killing themselves. Days later, the graves of some who have died this way have been found open and empty."
The Curious Case of Thaddeus Thornwell," Old Man Thaddeus Thornwell, who has been famous in town for a dozen years for sitting by his apple tree and telling crazy old stories to the local children, has suddenly begun aging backwards. In just the last week, he appears to have lost ten years, his hair having grown back and his back becoming less hunched. He experiences weird nose bleeds, and occasionally, his eyes grow red for seemingly no reason."
Crazy Witch Woman," Madame Goosho, the local old ""witch woman,"" has sealed herself inside her home, refusing to leave. All the windows and doors are nailed shut. Town leaders assume she's just gone batty."
"Why, Crow, Why?"," A crow sits atop the grave of recently-deceased Alathar Dane, and appears to be holding a red gem in its talons. Anyone who approaches is attacked by the bird, and it dexterously side-steps any missles fired at it."
The Town Close to Death," Every day a new person in a small town hears whispering in their ears. Its words are incomprehensible, and usually ends in disaster."
I Know That Guy," A man is extremely famous throughout the entire kingdom. His actions, decisions, and general self are all looked up top. The catch: nobody has ever seen him."
Screams," Screaming is heard deep in the forest, although it doesn't sound anything like person."
Earthquake?, A town claims that at night a rumbling can be heard. It does not sound natural.
Everyday," Everyday someone wanders to the lake, never to be seen again. Everyday somebody new begins to live in the town."
A House," A lone house sits in the middle of a dense forest. With smoke coming out of the chimney one would assume someone lives there. However, upon closer inspection, the inside is dark and the house is empty."
Crystals," Legend says that when the Twin Crystals are combined that a portal to ""paradise"" will be opened. No one has ever seen the crystals, and no one knows where they are."
Dragon of Coal," Many speculate the existence of a coal dragon. In the town of Xelspear, black acid seems to plague the farms, and cattle goes missing. Reports of a large shadow gliding through the air does not go unnoticed, nor does the fact that the black acid hardens into coal."
The Seeing Ring," A simple silver band with a black opal setting in the center. When put on, the ring sheds an unnatural warmth. The stone spins, revealing an eye that stares at the wearer."
The Cemetery, The inscriptions on the tombstones in the large cemetery outside of town are always changing. Even the stones of the freshly buried. No one has ever witnessed the change.
The Earworm, Everyone in town you encounter is humming or whistling the same eerie tune. Eventually you find yourself humming it too...
Shrinky Village," Every week, food appears in the city. This has been going on many years and the city thrives (read: no food making ability) because of it. However, this week the food is causing unknown side effects. People that eat it shrink to the size of 1/6th their original height."
A lively dream," A village has suddenly started having bad dreams. They all seem to be able to remember clips from their dream and it all has the same theme. Soon the dreams are exactly the same. Soon after that, the images are seen out of the corner of people's eyes, but disappear when looked at directly. Soon after that, the monsters are shadows, but can be looked at directly, then they start killing."
Hide and Squeak," All the rats in the city have mysteriously vanished. This seemed a good thing, until piles of dead rat-bitten cats were found last month, and the cities food stores have begun depleting at an unexplainable rate. Last week all the former rat-killers vanished from their beds. And now, every night at the stroke of midnight, an eery otherworldly bell can be heard tolling from somewhere deep under the city."
Insert Interesting Title Here," Every time anyone within 10 miles of the mysterious tower falls asleep, they dream they are being hunted by the embodiment of their worst nightmares. If they die in their dream they die in real life. The effects are slowly expanding outward from the tower, threatening a nearby settlement."
The Puppet Salesman," Once every week, a kindly old man living on the outskirts of town sets up a small market stall where he sells beautifully hand-crafted puppets. All who browse his collection long enough will find one puppet that looks exactly like them."
The Innocent Rat Plague," There are no rat-holes in plain sight anywhere to be found in town, no horrible stench or diseases run rampant and food will never go missing when left unattended. But whenever an old floorboard is replaced, a patch of dirt is disturbed or a particularly old piece of furniture needs to be moved, at least one rat always seems to be hiding just there and they always seem to get away through some small crack or hole somewhere."
The Adventurer's Respite," There's a small hut on a hill besides the road, far away from any town or city. When travellers pass by they will always see a warm, orange light coming through a window and smell a mouthwatering smell of freshly cooked supper wafting towards them. The lady of the house, whose husband will likely be home late today, will always welcome weary travellers, offering them a place by the hearth, a wonderful meal and a soft bed for the night. All who go to sleep in the hut will wake up the next morning in rotten, lice-infested sheets in the wooden ruins of something that must have been a home many, many years ago, the decaying and brittle skeleton of whoever once lived here still lying on the muddy floor by the hearth."
The Quiet Village," This tiny village is contained within wooden palisade walls, ending at two usually open gates at the front and back. No sound can be heard from the village, and once you pass through its gates, no sound can be heard at all. A pan banging next to your ear is as silent as anything could ever be. This effect exists only within these wooden walls, and none of the townsfolk seem to notice."
A Sea of Dirt," This empty town is devoid of life, but all its buildings and items remain intact. By day, it's a spot where a traveler can rest his weary head in a featherbed once belonging to some noble, or find a treasure of some kind that a blacksmith had tucked away. By night, the ground changes. Living things that touch the ground fall into it like a stone into water, and no amount of swimming can save them; they are pulled down into the unknown. The buildings are away from one another, making it hard to get from place to place. The town will not let you leave without a fight."
The Missing Parents," There are no adults in this village. The kids rule in their place, and though they do not do the things that adults would do, they seem to be surviving fine. Nearby towns have not reported any of their adults coming to them, nor has anyone seen a sign from them. The only clue you have to go on is the ferocity by which the children protect the town hall's basement..."
Liturgy to the Dead," In the woods there sits a black stone, dark as night, and large as ten men on each other's shoulders. On the plateau of this rock stands ten people in a circle, old and young, men and women, and of different races. They do not acknowledge the presence of any who disturb them, and cannot be moved from the spot they stand in. In the center of their circle sits a second black stone in the shape of an egg. As day night falls and day breaks, they are unchanged. Now, though, there are only nine."
The Mad Hatter," At a local haberdashery, a hatter creates works that astonish and amaze even the most sophisticated of hat enthusiasts. No matter what price he sells them for, people fight to be the one to buy them. What seems odd, though, is the faint magical aura on each hat that nobody else seems to see. What caught your attention was that the aura felt a lot like an undead..."
The Monk in the Field," In the middle of this field sits a monk, whose strong powers can be felt a mile away. There is nothing but grass around him on all sides but one; in front of him sits a forest. This monk is engaged in heavy prayer, a ritual perhaps, and cannot move or speak. From his tattered cloths and the growth around him it appears he's been at this for a very long time, years maybe, sustained by some otherworldly force. All you know is, the more you look at the forest, the heavier you feel, and the more inclined you feel to stopping this man's prayers."
Lost and found," A little box on the corner of a street in a small, otherwise unremarkable fishing town. Nothing special per se, where it not that objects inside always find their original owner, and have included everything from solitary socks to priceless artifacts and even the kings wedding ring."
A beggar and a thief," a simple beggar known as richie. People who come in contact often lose things, you could toss him a coin and find your earrings gone. Often accused, he's been frisked more than you could count, but never have any of the objects been found. He still sits on the same corner every day, not a coin to his name, watched closely, called a beggar and a thief daily."
The calmest place on earth," A small shack in a region tormented by the elements. 3 floods, a forest fire, 4 tornadoes and an earthquake later, nothing of the surroundings looks the same, yet the small shack still stands, untouched by nature."
The waypoint," A non-magical rock, often used by travellers as a waypoint due to it's recognisable shape. Although you're pretty sure it was standing in the woods last time you saw it, not in the middle of a corn field.."
The knocking," There are lots of tales of people dying peacefully in their sleep, with eyewitnesses saying the night before, the deceased got up and opened the door, reacting to a knock only they could hear."
I Know That Guy!," Every inn or tavern in every town, village, or city the adventurers go to has a bartender that looks and sounds exactly alike. He always goes by a different name, but everyone in the party recognizes him from each of the other places. No matter how hard he is questioned or interrogated, he has no idea what the adventurers are talking about if they confront him with it."
The Beekeeper's Daughter," The girl was tending the bees near their cottage at the edge of the forest; whatever happened to her, she left no trace."
The Woodcutter's Axe," Stan the woodcutter went outside to get to work, but his axe wasn't where he left it; he found it nearby, buried in the skull of a man he's never seen."
"The Butcher, the Baker, and the Brothelkeeper", A pair of local businessmen (the butcher and the baker) have been acting very strangely after a night of drunken revelry at Madame Biggs' brothel.
Oldtown Tavern," The barkeep at the Oldtown Tavern swears the glasses keep rearranging themselves, and the barmaid saw something disturbing when tossing out the scraps in the back alley."
Dark Homecoming," The secretive Steelmoon Academy was founded on the site of an ancient monastery a few decades ago. Pupils who were admitted to the school had never returned to their families. Last month, one did return..."
The Burned Tree," This morning, the locals found that the ancient oak tree standing in the center of the village is dead and burned; no one heard the crackle of flames nor felt the heat from what must have been a massive conflagration in the night."
The Twitching Eye," The captain of the watch brought the mummified eye that was around one of the graverobbers' necks back to his office along with several other items that might serve as evidence. Yesterday morning when he arrived at his office, he had found the eye had rolled off his desk and tucked itself into a corner of the room. This morning, the eye was in the same corner and a ghost was rifling through his desk."
The Stolen Recipe," After a night like any other night, a well-known alehouse is broken into. The burglars managed to locate the hidden safe and crack it open. Not a single coin was taken despite there being several hundred. The only item stolen was the owner's only copy of a centuries-old recipe for brewing golden ale."
Two Lost Boys, Campfires have been seen at night in the ancient stone ruin. A local farmer went to investigate and found nothing. The following day two boys went to play among the ruins and they never came back.
Locked Royal Rooms, The King has been murdered while at his summer palace from the capital city. He is dead of a knife wound in his own bedchamber. There does not appear to be any forced entry and the guards posted saw and heard nothing. The palace's soul gatehouse reports that no one came or left the palace last night.
The Big Tip," When her favorite patron, a member of the City Guard, stopped coming in to see her at the urban tavern where she works, the barmaid was a little disappointed. When someone left a purse with her name on it containing 5,000 gold pieces, she was shocked but cautiously accepting of it. When someone left a purse with her name on it containing a severed ear, she panicked."
The Stitched-Lips," The high brother of the Storm King's Temple of Winter has been found dead on the temple grounds. The freshly burnt-down candles, the half-eaten supper, and the open books and notes on his reading table suggest that he was interrupted while taking his evening meal alone in his study. The immediate cause of death is unclear, but his lips have been sewn together neatly with fine silk thread."
The Bridge of Crabs," On a thin strip of land separating two bodies of water , only a mile and half wide, sand continues away from the beach stretching across the land and connecting two the opposing beach. No trees or plants grow here, just a 100 yard wide desert bridge across the land."
Compass Jester's Fist," On the road between here and the capitol, just off the road, a giant three fingered fist carved from some magnetic stone juts from the ground."
XXL Sweaters, Someone or something is enlarging Farmer Greenbrows sheep to 3X their size.
The Battalion Tree," A large old gnarled tree in the forest has a special property: when someone touches a gold coin to the tree, the sound of a 1000 swords unsheathing echo through the forest."
Druid Grove," In these woods is a well maintained grove of trees of many different species. Some shouldn't even be in this climate. one trait they all share is the faces that rise out of the bark. All the faces maintain the look of peaceful slumber. All except for the very last tree, which bears no leaves, it's branches ending in scorched limbs. The face on this trunk is frozen in a scream of anguish."
Mystery Name," Its like a statue or something. I guess it makes you procrastinate, I'll describe it better later."
The Kitchen Table Conch," Instead of hearing the ocean or the sound of the blood in your own ears, once a day this conch emits a mundane conversation between a family. Mother, father, son, daughter, and grandma are all discussing their boring daily experiences."
One still cares," A long dead necromancer is buried in the town cemetery. Every year on his birthday and anniversary of his death, someone leaves a tulip and a bottle of wine on his grave."
The Alley of Forgotten Toys, People who walk down this alley late at night often find toys that they lost as children.
Spider Town," A halfling village, far from major cities, is draped in webs. The townsfolk live in harmony with the spiders, but what do they need protection from?"
Lost Generation," It's harvest time, and all the villagers are gathered in town for a brief harvest ceremony. There are more women than men. There seem to be no young men between about 18-23 years old."
Frozen Village," Out in the mountains; people out and about on daily errands -- frozen in place, some mid step; unmoving and unaware."
Nursery Rhyme, The children sing a strange little rhyme. Everyone knows the words and no one knows where it came from. Probably from some long-lost wet nurse. Why then does the ruling council cringe when they hear it? And who is the foolish king the rhyme tells of?
Wonderous Outhouse," This outhouse seems shabby on the outside, but inside it smells of mountain air and meadow flowers. A washbasin seems to fill itself and waste and feces seem to disappear down the hole."
Glittering Cloud, Out over the ocean there's a massive cloud that doesn't travel exactly with the wind. Staring at it sometimes yields a glimpse of something glittering.
Woman's Word, A local slang word can't be heard by men or boys.
Taste of Darkness," Recently when the sun goes down in the city, food and drink acquires a peculiar aftertaste."
Mismatched Mansion," Walking around the grounds outside, the East Wing of the mansion is much larger than it seems on the inside. The West Wing has an extra story on the inside than can be seen from outside."
Buzzing Hills," The hills seem to emit a faint buzz, until you get too close to them."
Locked Room in the Lords Manner, The local lord has a room in his castle he has never been able to open. What lies beyond?
The Hungry Prison," Each day a prisoner vanishes. The other guards refuse to talk about it, its clear they arent escaping so whats going on? (hint for DMs: Google DnD house hunter)."
The strange grandson, The team collects rare ingrediants for an old wizard. Then they meet his oddly wise grandson who wants them to do even more jobs.
Little Lost Lordlings, Strange tales of children in the forest living like knights and lords. Even stranger is the rumour that they never age. An old woman swears she saw her brother exactly the way he was the day he vanished.
The Tower of the Gods, A strange tower emerged recently. Though everyone seems to think it was always there. What strange tidings await inside?
Reality is not what it used to be, Children born in a certain village seem to have strange abilities. Reality warping magic.
Mirror Town," Right next to each other sit two cities. Exactly the reflection of the other down to the people. They say twins are always born. Each the exact opposite of the other. Who can you trust? (PS for extra fun give the good guys goatees, they will never see that coming)."
The tree of worlds, Inside this small tree there are portals to many other realms. Or are they?
The Lost Archives," A library as large as a city once existed, containing all the knowledge of the sentient races. However someone lost the map and now its nowhere to be found. How did they lose something so important?"
The Endless War and the Murdered King, In a small valley there exists a war that never ends. Those that worship the sun against those that worship the moon. Why does it never end? They are all cursed with immortality. Yet people keep attempting to murder the kings. who would do this and why?
Growing pains," Screams are heard in the middle of the night, random body parts growing bigger during the night. This invites the worst kind of tourists."
Blind luck," Anything can happen on the mountain, as long as nobody is not looking."
Sharp dressed man," An order of shoes arrive in town with buyers names and 'prices' attached, all of which desperately in need of shoeing."
Not even half the woman you are!, A half (literally) woman appears at night stealing still pregnant women' unborn children. She appears to each person as themselves.
Tall tales," Any story or reason you can tell an old lady, has already been told to her before, she can't remember by who though, she knows the story and how it ends."
Evolution, There is a species of creature that evolves immediately under threat. Everyone is too scared to chase it down lest it evolve into something that eats them.
Undying," An ancient cave can transfer a sickness from one to another, but never back."
That's heavy," Things seem randomly weigh different from day to day, creating an interesting lifestyle for those living in the area."
Lair of the Trickster," The burial ground for the legendary group of heroes led by a man called the Trickster is said to contain his powerful sword. All of the locals are afraid to venture inside - not because of dark magic, or the undead. Legend says that the tomb itself plays pranks and tricks on all those who enter."
The Quiet Town," Upon first glance, this is a completely normal village. The local people don't talk much, and stay away from strangers. But come night, all of the citizens retreat inside and board their doors and windows. Come night, the undead come. These undead don't seem violent, and don't attack the party, all they want is inside the houses. Upon further inspection, these undead look an awful lot like the exact citizens you were just talking to."
The Wood Fort," The legendary stronghold of Woodfort has never been breached, despite being built out of wood. It was said to have been built with an extinct magical kind of tree, and cannot be burned or easily broken. But nearby, the surrounding forest has slowly been dying over time - ever since the fort was built. Legends say the forest used to house all kinds of Fae, but none have been seen in a very long time."
Idle of the Town," This miniature horse is beloved by the townsfolk. They stop short of worshiping it but it is included in all major social functions and gatherings. Nobody can explain the appeal of this miniature horse, and outsiders can concoct no explanation for the enthusiasm and loyalty shown by the townsfolk towards the animal."
The Wandering Marsh," While travelling through a stretch of forest, adventurers pass through many small valleys where the ground is damp and the foliage is dead. Wherever they go, a swamp seems to block their path. When they backtrack, they find a swamp where there was none."
Divorce," Upon entering the village, one notices the air is still and there is strange dust covering nearly everything, even the people. The villagers claim many of their kind simply vanished and they are unable to leave the village grounds - they reappear on the other side when entering the nearby woods. The adventurers go to the nearby river past the tree-line and find an old dock with a shack and rowboat. Across the river is the exact same shack and boat, imperfections and all. Heading across the river, they find the exact same village mirrored and all the missing people from the first village."
The Silence," While travelling, the adventurers sometimes find themselves in a nearby place with no recollection of going there, often out of breath & with their weapons drawn."
My Child," In a small village, a mother has just given birth to her 7th, but only child; the first died at 1-month, the 2nd at 2 months, the 3rd at 4 months, the 4th at 8 months and the 5th after a year and a half & the 6th after 3 years. The 7th child is now 5 years old and looks identical to all the others. It also seems to remember the lives of its lost siblings."

