d100,Entry

1,"A tall and husky Gold Dragonborn, clad in bright colored and decorative clothing, sits on an equally ornate rug. He's fidgeting with something in his mouth. It's has a small garnet, chipped by his teeth and covered in spit. He has a small pouch in his vest full of these gross little gems. He sells very beautiful jewelry, thankfully with no bite marks."
2,"Two very young Halfling brothers are making dumplings. The dumplings are way too big even for a normal sized person, but they taste pretty good."
3,"A tiefling who's missing a tooth smiles quite charismatically. He's selling potions and poisons, but they're stored in old, reused liquor bottles. Kinda weird, but mostly harmless."
4,"This human-elf couple makes soap. They're super happy because of their soap, which is always enchanted into putting anyone who uses it into a good mood."
5,"This scrawny kobold is making guns. He loves his firearms to death, despite being too small to wield a majority of them. He just loves his craft."
6,"A bald, female wizard doesn't actually sell anything, but she enchants items for others. She also has a hairless cat, probably related to the same incident. She has looks that could kill, but she is super sensitive when someone brings up her lack of hair."
7,"A young, quiet librarian sits behind a desk reading a book. When the player gets closer, they notice that she's actually a centaur. She's quite dainty and gentle for her size."
8,"A disabled dwarf creates small trinkets from bed. His half human daughter takes care of him, but a network of clockwork beasts run his store front, taking care of sales and maintaining each other so they'll sell for a pretty penny. Rumors about him creating a chair with wheels are spreading, so he'll finally be mobile again."
9,"An unlikely pair of merchants run an apothecary, alternatingly with one working on baubles while the other deals with customers. The dwarf is a grumpy old man, nearly unapproachable, and usually berates his half-orc apprentice even when in front of the customers. When asked, he typically overprices and generally shuts down any attempts at haggling. The half-orc apprentice is suspicious and intimidating in appearance, and sound threatening when replying to his dwarf master, but is actually much more cordial to the customers and is more lenient when haggling. Both, however, like their beer."
10,A gnome tinker who has all kinds of different scrounged and jury-rigged magic items. He appears on his cart every couple hours until the party buys something.
11,"An aarakocra resembling a vulture who sells things he finds. By 'finds', he means he takes stuff off of dead bodies and whatever else he sees lying around. He'll sell random pieces of armor, weapons, books, and food he cooks himself with scavenged meats and the like. He's a great cook and a cynical old coot. His coyote & pepper stew is quite popular."
12,A thin man wearing a backpack seemingly too large to carry. Inside are various minor magic items which he sells as novelties to anyone with the cash to buy them. He is dressed in flamboyant clothing.
13,A homeless man gives advice on the town and strange trinkets in exchange for coin.
14,"A cheerful dragonborn who runs a sandwich shop in a tavern. He is obsessed with incredibly spicy food, and tries to push spices on customers to 'keep the fire burning in their stomachs'. Cooks all of his food with his breath weapon."
15,"A young half elf alchemist selling concoctions out of a small bag. Her accessories include a bandolier that holds different vials, leaf shaped earrings, and a purple headband. She promises that her creations work, however the shakiness of her voice don’t inspire confidence. She’ll get overly excited when she makes a sale."
16,"A scarred, brutish orc selling finely crafted jewelry. if engaged in conversation, he reveals that he only took up the barbaric ways of his people because of peer pressure. Eventually he went adventuring and then decided to pursue his lifelong hobby of crafting rings and necklaces and the like. His clan must believe he is long dead by now."
17,"A young human wizard, yet to lose his baby fat and with no sign of facial hair can provide advanced spell scrolls, but always refers to customers as 'youngster' or 'whippersnapper'. When asked about it, he becomes very upset, muttering about curses and kids not respecting their elders anymore."
18,"A old human luthier with a grey mustache and coke bottle glasses. He’s always working on something and refuses to look away from what he’s working on for more than a second. His teenaged son does most of the dealing, however he spend most of his time playing with the merchandise. The son will keep playing when spoken to and will inform everyone that his band is playing at the tavern that night. Before making any deal he will walk over and ask his father if the deal is fair."
19,"A slender, well-mannered man sells curiosities in a travelling carriage. He has a pet mimic that has taken the form of a small lockbox, which is somehow very well trained and obedient."
20,"A female high elf with shoulder length auburn hair and named Mary Jane sells herbs, fruits and vegetables from a large wagon pulled by a pair of mechanical oxen. Many of the herbs are seasoning; some have medicinal uses and a few have 'recreational uses'. Her partner, a shy male Halfling named Timmy who barely speaks to anyone, but, if you can befriend him, he can sell you a few herbs and roots that are useful in toxin manufacture."
21,A sphinx who sells minor magical items in exchange for new riddles.
22,"A quick tongued elven female who has a reputation of being a snob. She often wears a colorful dress that's skirt reaches down to her knees, several different pieces of jewelry, and a small leather bag that has the symbol of her merchant clan on it."
23,"A halfling peddler who roams town to town selling wears from his 'many adventures'. If the party sells him something, say a blanket, they might find it for sale in the next town over. The blanket will have some story such as how hiding below it prevents ghosts and goblins from seeing you, or maybe it had kept him warm in the snow capped mountains and was the warmest blanket ever. He will be selling for three times what he paid for it at the least. If you want to add another layer of mystery. The things he says the objects can do actually happen. Aside from the obvious abilities the goods have, they are clearly the same goods the adventures and townsfolk sell him. Down to a wierd stain or carved initial. He is smart enough not to sell goods in the places he bought them."
24,"A smith, a '90s waif who only weighs 90 pounds if she's carrying hammer and tongs. She's tiny, the size of a human ten-year-old. She makes big, heavy things such as plate armor, tower shields, pole arms. They're of masterwork quality. She's not deceptively strong, either: she can barely raise the hammer above her shoulder. There's no enchantment or anything else involved; nobody has ever been able to figure out how she does it."
25,"A kobold sells 'Enhanced' potions at a discount from a dingy shop sandwiched between two larger, more reputable stores. The proprietor is somewhat vague on exactly how the potions have been enhanced. They do exactly what the label implies, though ('Ideally,' the proprietor insists,) they frequently come with an additional effect. This 'Enhancement' can range from enhancing the user's physical and mental faculties, to making the user's skin turn blue for hours, to making the user's tongue taste like bathwater. A particularly intelligent user may be able to determine the side-effect before using it. The rest simply have to hold their breath, drink, and pray."
26,A tall lanky shop owner who can't seem to get warm. He wears several sets of clothes at once.
27,"A very grumpy half-orc who gives customers what they want, but does not take requests. His prices are excellent, but he will only sell one item of his own choosing to each PC."
28,"A toothless, vegetarian lizardfolk who sells poultices and other herbal remedies. He claims that he was cursed to have no teeth and took up a different diet out of necessity, and he grinds up his food into a puree so he can eat it properly. His scales are a sickly yellow and he's almost always bent over his table, grinding up and boiling down various common and exotic plants, all of which he grows or buys himself."
29,"A bizarrely dressed human with a strange beard and haircut. He brews coffee and spends hours perfecting it so he could find the purest, most flavorful blend. In reality, it's just normal coffee. When being told this, he responds by saying that they aren't cultured enough to understand the depth of the flavor. He's incredibly cranky and pretentious for his age, so almost nobody likes him."
30,"A dust genasi who sells a huge variety of cleaning supplies. Brooms, mops, soaps, various scented oils, you name it. He's constantly leaving a trail of dust around and cleans it up as it gets made. When it's pointed out that he's doing a fruitless task, he becomes extremely sarcastic and thanks them for pointing out the obvious. Other than that, he's pretty laid back."
31,"A Warforged merchant that sells scrap metal, logs, wagons and parts to assemble your own Warforged bodyguard. Oh, and he has some healing potions at discounted prices because 'What would anyone use them for?'"
32,"This unidentifiable person is clad in a bright blue robe and an opaline mask. Their hands and feet are bright blue as well. They sit on a pretty standard rug, cross legged and swaying side to side. His rug is NOT for sale, because he always mentions it before talking to a customer, along with a large tag that says 'NOT FOR SALE' on the side. He sells various items, all with some sort of minor magical effect. He doesn't say much except for strange things like, 'What's your favorite color? Mine's blue.' and 'I like your haircut.' When the party leaves, he quietly hums to himself and disappears as soon as he's out of earshot. Nobody knows who or what you're talking about when you try to mention him."
33,"A strangely happy man in a cart pulled by horses. He smiles extremely wide and creepily. He'll offer free items to the party, like food, if they come into his cart and grab it. You probably should've noticed this was a highly advanced mimic, due to his mouth not moving when he talks and the walls of his carriage looking kinda fleshy."
34,"A quiet woman lies lazily on the back of a smooth-shelled ankylosaurus. The anky's name is Bailey, and she's just a big puppy dog who likes being pet. The merchant (named Rachael) sells books, and buys books. She also gladly accepts food for her anky. Bailey likes corn a lot."
35,"A triton fisherman riding the back of a colossal catfish, with a small tent on its back. He has wide variety of fish stored in small barrels in preserving salts. He and his catfish have been friends since they were both born, and he takes great offense when someone insults his fish (both the ones he's selling and the one he's riding)."
36,"A butcher who enjoys his job a little too much. He's super creepy, but he hasn't done anything wrong and he is well respected by those who've known him for a while."
37,"A huge man wearing sunglasses made of red quartz claims to be the best sculptor in the world. He can prove it too, all his statues are carved from the exact same type of granite and look scarily like the real thing. They always look scared for some reason too. As it turns out, he has a gorgon held hostage in his basement, and he uses her to freeze various animals and people he captures. From raccoons and chickens to cows and people, he's kidnapping them and petrifying them. Somebody should stop him. He sells his statues for a whole lot of money."
38,"Subtle slave trader. The 'products' are actually transformed into animals or trinkets. Upon purchase, the trader will give the new owner a scroll or item to transform the trinket into the slave (maybe even back again). A clever way to smuggle slaves through check points and/or through lands that don't support slavery."
39,"A cowpuncher with a heavy accent. She sells common livestock, along with a few exotic things like special built saddles and animal barding. She claims to be from a place called 'Wyoming', which everyone knows doesn't exist. She's completely sane however."
40,"A bearded chef who's incredibly skinny despite the fact he's always eating. He's a very prestigious chef who's famous for his dragon egg, orange, and tomato omelet. He has a pouch of granola clusters on him that he's constantly munching on. He jokes about being cursed by a witch when he was younger, but he's actually correct."
41,"You stumble upon a giant clam shell placed near a road by the beach. Knocking on it, a sleepy man opens the lid and rubs his eyes, asking who's there. He'll sell you things he finds in and around the ocean before closing the clam and going back to sleep."
42,A painfully average man who sells painfully average things. Any magic items sold to him will lose their properties.
43,"A wandering hunter wielding a crossbow who will sell her wares to the party, or the nearest town. She'll seem to travel in the same path as the party, showing signs of her travels (new scars, new pelts, maybe even a new friend)."
44,"An older human male approximately 60 years old, hulking frame, thick biceps, bald as a bowling ball and wears a gold chain running from earring to nose-ring, nicknamed 'Bull' runs a shop with his wife, a delicate grey-haired human woman of medium height, but thin as a rail and speaking with a raspy voice which tells of her advanced age. In this shop, you can find the finest china service sets and tableware in the province. From platters to plates, from pitchers to spoons, from cups to cutlery, everything you need to put out the best spread is available at Bull's China Shop."
45,"A figure, roughly 5’5”, covered in heavy winter clothing. His(?) voice can be understood, but is muffled by layers of scarves. In actuality, there is nothing underneath the clothing; he’s a modified enchanted armor. They sell a huge variety of armor."
46,"A half-elf wizard with a crow on his shoulder. The wizard turns his head rapidly and jerkily to look at anything that moves, but stays silent. If a customer approaches, the crow speaks to them, disgruntled by the change of bodies between him and his familiar. They sells wants and books, typical wizarding gear."
47,"A vampire couple. They don't feed off humans, instead coming out at night to hunt elk, rabbits, and other game so they can feed. They say it tastes like stale water mixed with iron shavings and beef broth, but they also say the bad taste is more than worth it so they stay in good standings with the mortals they live near. They sell timber as well as high quality furniture they make themselves. They'll sell other things like knives, small whittled figures, and furniture polish, if you ask. The community loves them for being so helpful and not causing any problems."
48,"A dwarf with insane eyes, charred hair, and a lack of eyebrows. He has an insane look in his eyes, and is attempting to sell gunpowder and explosives to all who walk by. He keeps sizing up the local buildings with his eyes, especially the wooden ones."
49,"A very articulate bald man with glasses. He has an obscene amount of knowledge on the most useless things, like music and technology. He's a comedian with a small food business on the side. He has a short and sweet wife who makes the delicious food that he sells. They have two long hair cats, who they call their sons. They use strange words and phrases that nobody else understands, like 'acquiesce' and 'get dusted'."
50,"Armiton, very calm minded human who sells the crops he grows on his farm. His workers are all homunculi."
51,"A stout burly man with a slightly singed brown beard and tanned, scarred complexion; he's wearing a faded motley cloak and sells a variety of odds and ends. When discussing his goods, he shows off the mundane objects at his stall as if they were exotic wonders. The magical items however, are dismissed as 'silly pish-posh' and he hardly acknowledges them."
52,"A half-elf, half-dryad who's mother was a willow. He has long, flowing hair with flowers scattered in it. His dryad nature shows through, as patches of his skin are textured like wood and his hair is a light green, among other things. He is always sitting down, whether it's crisscross on the floor or on a nearby branch. Around his neck is a small heart made of amber with a tiny blue flower embedded inside. He'll sell you various traveling provisions and other useful, mundane things, like shovels and lanterns."
53,"A short haired woman with a light voice. She plays the ukulele and sings as a street performer. She'll play any song on request, for a price. She seems to know every song imaginable by heart even when she has no possible way of knowing it, and she never falters in her performance. She NEVER lets her prized ukulele out of sight. She's a folk hero for making an ogre run away crying after playing a song that it's mother sang to him as a baby, among other rumors and tales."
54,Eddy and Johny's cabinet of curios A gnome and half-orc couple who sell small nik-naks some of which give off slight magic. (They sell things off the millions of trinket tables you can find)
55,"A young Goblin merchant that is constantly trying to sell the random scraps and knickknacks he finds lying around from the massive burlap sack on his back. Many of his goods tend to be in poor condition or are junk, and a good amount of them were found through more liberal interpretations of the phrase “lying around”. Despite this, he is a hard worker that is just trying to make a living in any way he can manage, and genuinely appreciates anyone who acknowledges that. Those who do usually end up with better deals on more junk, as well as the opportunity to purchase first when he truly finds something of value. Every time someone browses his wares, he proudly proclaims that he’s got the best deals anywhere, despite his tendency to slightly overprice all his goods."
56,"A middle-aged Human blacksmith hawks his weapons and armor from the side of a small indoor arena that he owns. The portly man is eager to draw in customers, and is very proud of his works, inviting people in from off the streets to admire their impressive appearances. He is always eager to sell his normal merchandise, but those who wish to purchase his most ornate works must prove that they are capable of handling themselves in combat against a battered set of animated armor, and are challenged to push the construct out of the 15-foot radius arena without getting knocked prone by it. Only if you can do it will he allow a customer to purchase his masterpieces, all of which are beautifully yet practically designed, made from exotic materials that are perfect for enchanting."
57,"A tottering old Halfling woman often found heavily bundled up on the corners of busy streets. Despite being nearly blind, she sews repairs to cloaks and clothing in exchange for stories and tales. She is incredibly good-hearted and refers to everyone she meets as “Dearie”. She insists that she doesn’t need money and that the stories she hears make her the wealthiest woman alive, but her customers always tend to leave her some coin anyway. The repairs she makes seem patchwork and haphazard, but are surprisingly durable in addition to making the fabric much more homey and comfortable. All of the locals consider to be a staple of the community, and are very protective of her."
58,An Earth Genasi and his cart of cabbages. Only sells cabbages and is mysteriously in every large town you visit.
59,"A small iron golem smith, who exclusively crafts razor sharp longswords (crit range 18-20, cost 200 gp, otherwise same as normal longswords). His hammer is actually an intelligent magic item that gives instructions to him in a way the players can't perceive. The golem always talks about the hammer, not himself ('he has this for sale, he would charge you that, etc.') Upon receiving payment the golem throws the gold in a pot in the forge and later, if the party pays attention, mixes bronze into it after hours to produce gold bars, if it doesn't know the party is watching."
60,"A blue-skinned tiefling who works as a glassblower. He has a lot of beautiful pots, jars, and bottles, all of which are made in stunning colors and dazzling designs. Aside from these, he also has glass weapons and armor. They're really clunk, but they're as powerful as they are beautiful. He keeps these a secret from his teenage female apprentice, named Sydney, to keep her focused on the basic craft. If asked about this, he says, 'She needs to walk before she can run.'"
61,"A gangling, calm, quiet man who speaks slowly. He drags a cart full of various snails and snail shells. His clothing is adorned with many shells, but otherwise he dresses modestly and is kind-hearted. His name is Escar-Joe."
62,"A halfling man who runs the printing business in town. His printing press is unlike any you've ever seen, about the size of a carriage and constantly clicking and whirring quietly as it prints like clockwork, and where he got it is a mystery. When asked, he'll change the subject in an attempt to sell scribing tools, like pens, ink, and paper."
63,"An orc who lives in the overgrown skeleton of a giant, sleeping in the skull. He sells game he hunts and 'clothes' he makes out of the bones and hides."
64,"A human child, around 8-9, with long, brown pigtails. Her name is Bethany, and she claims to be a healer. She'll cure curses, disease, and other aliments. She'll fail sometimes, but she's still learning. She lives in a local monastery with several other priests. They say they found her as a baby and have raised her since, and she shows great promise for her abilities."
65,"A short, bald, wizened old man who runs a pet shop. None of the animals are in cages and are all free-roaming. Despite appearing to be conversing with the humans who enter his shop, he is actually talking to his real customers - the animals. When he completes a deal, the pets scratch or bite their new owners and pay him in drops of blood."
66,"A shaggy, humanoid shambling mound imbued with sentience by an unknown master. They can't speak, rather carrying around a chalkboard around to communicate. They're wearing loose common garb, but you can barely tell. They sell various herbal teas and remedies, and they'll give you a haircut too if you ask. They have the ashes of their master in a small vial around their neck."
67,"A lizardfolk blacksmith who's obsessed with fire. Her skin is a deep blue, and her neck and frills behind her ears are orange. She'll cuddle up to her roaring forge at night to make sure she stays toasty."
68,"A mute tailor who is a total hermit. The clothes he sells are enchanted to become as heavy as lead if someone tries to steal them. He never leaves his house above his shop, only coming down to silently stock up his wares when nobody is around to see him. Purchases are made by putting the coins into a slot build into his desk, then the enchantment will wear off, allowing you to take your clothes."
69,"A well dressed woman with a veil over her face pulls you into an alley before commanding you to buy something. A shelf of potions accompanies her, all unmarked. If you try to ask a question, she pushes you out. If you don't buy something, she pushes you out. Turning around after she pushes you away reveals that there was never an alley there to begin with."
70,"A steampunk dwarf artificer with two crude tentacles crafted onto a small hydrator engine attached to his lower spine. Wears a brown trench coat, bald and grey beard and drinks copious amounts of coffee. Quite friendly and talented with a blunderbuss also runs and operates Loch & Load artificing shop."
71,"A short woman who makes tea. Her tea is mostly normal, but if you ask she'll show you all sorts of exotic plants made into tea bags. Banana leaf tea, cactus sap tea, goodberry tea, spicy honey tea, venus fly trap tea... these are getting weird."
72,"A fire genasi who's obsessed with smoke. He sells cigars, smoked meats, and tinderboxes. He smells like smoke, his eyes and skin are a dusty orange."
73,"You open the door to a large shop, and it's empty. Save for a single table, with a quiche. A singular quiche. There's a note that says, 'Pay what you want' with a smiley face in crude handwriting. You can smell a goblin in here somewhere. Did she make this?"
74,"A man with a pet rust monster buys metal scraps and sells the chitin his pet drops. Maybe there's a use for it. The rust monster is extremely well behaved, with little bows around its antenna. It's kinda cute."
75,"A gruff, stereotypical strongman runs a bar. A normal bar."
76,"A dark skinned goliath woman who runs a daycare. She sells the arts and crafts that her children make that they don't take home, and she'll take care of your kids if you have any. Everyone calls her Mama."
77,"A young witch who smells of alcohol. For some reason, she cursed herself to be constantly intoxicated. She only uses fire magic and anything to get her more drunk."
78,A fat man who yells a lot. He sells mead he homebrews himself. Is he deaf? Maybe he's deaf.
79,"This kid claims to have an invisible cow, and he sells the milk. When you try and prove him wrong, a long moo comes from seemingly all around you. I guess he does have an invisible cow. Drinking the milk turns you invisible for a few minutes."
80,"This man sells wagons of all shapes and sizes. From wheelbarrows to horse drawn carriages, he makes them all by hand. He's known for being very precise when he stains the wood, also by hand."
81,"A tabaxi with shaggy fur sells livestock, who are all acting strange and annoyed. She swears they aren't stolen. Stop asking."
82,"A royal guard with a scrawny body and weak chin. He'll give you the latest gossip on the town for a few coins. He'll tell you regardless, then get annoyed when you don't pay."
83,"An aarakocra chicken who sells healing potions. The potions are contained in eggshells and look like normal eggs, if a bit larger than the usual. The merchant will fluff up and squawk indignantly if a PC wonders whether the merchant laid the eggs. She will scratch in the dirt and wave a feathered arm angrily. 'NOT my—bawk!—CHILDREN.' The potions all heal an extra 2 HP, but the shells are fragile."
84,Legitimate Larry. He’s so legitimate that his collection of obviously stole items obviously must have just fallen off the back of a cart.
85,"A Halfling Artificer and Tinker, with a broad smile and gregarious nature. He produces intricate, ingenious mechanical devices for adventurers. The shop he operates out of is built-to-halfling-scale, though. To broaden his customer base, he has fitted every shelf, display, and even the front wall of the building with a complex system of rails and slides, allowing him to do business with anyone, and display anything, all at the customer's eye level."
86,"What appears to be an EXTREMELY tall halfling woman, but when she walks around the counter, she is simply wearing the tallest pair of platform shoes you've ever seen. All she sells is shoes. Some of the shoes are enchanted, but many are just 'fashionable'."
87,"A tortle that, when it approaches, it appears the shell has been carved to look like tattoos. When he speaks, he has a deep slow tone to his voice (imagine Johnny Cash). He sells books and scrolls and writing equipment. He is never in a rush to make a sale as he enjoys the act of bartering but always ensures he makes a profit. His stock often holds rare or even forbidden books. When asked, he will just shrug and say something about not knowing or forgetting the book was there. He of course houses lots of spell scrolls at different levels and will even sell a few spellbooks from wizards that gave either passed or given up that life."
88,"Bobbik and Bimbeck's Curiosities: Mr. Bobbik is a bespectacled Beholder with a friendly and inquisitive nature. A true oddity in his species and as such shunned entirely from polite underdark society. In his travels, he met Mr. Bimbeck, who was exploring caverns looking for interesting rocks and a lifelong friendship was formed. The two of them sell all manner of strange and unique things. They probably don't have EXACTLY what you are looking for, but they certainly have something of interest. Example Inventory: A potted plant with a bell on it (So it can't sneak up on you), a warhammer that you can fill with angry bees, Aardvark poison, Aardvark medicine, a clockwork thing you don't know what it does that has a bell on it so it can't sneak up on you."
89,"Sister Elma: She claims to be a Nun and sells holy symbols and dubious reliquaries to travelers. Example Inventory: Martyr's Big Toe on a string, desicrated left testicle of a legendary bard, mostly accurate holy symbols at discount prices, bag of bones from a legendary warrior (or a chicken, depending on perception checks)."
90,"Bob and Rob Oblah (And Hobble their Goblin assistant): An Ettin with 4 eyes for values! Not the brightest, but with a natural sense for what things are worth and if they are being cheated or short-changed. The two heads can be played off of each other in the process of haggling. Hobble the Goblin mostly just stares daggers at the customer and polishes the counter. Example Inventory: Magic Items, hand made Goblin crafts."
91,"A new gnomish invention that automatically dispenses a piece of gum that works as a healing potion if the proper amount of gold is inserted. Roll a d20 when using the machine. On a 20, two pieces of gum come out. On a 1 the machine jams and no gum comes out. Has tamper resistance enchantments that destroy the gum if the machine is broken into."
92,"A dwarven barber that uses magical shears. Cuts their client's hair to be longer, not shorter."
93,"A Tabaxi merchant sells beautiful glassware and fine china, things that an adventurer would probably never use. Symbols on his shop in thieves' cant suggest he may also be a fence, although they are confusing, crossed out and re-written. The Tabaxi, a dark-coated young merchant named Many Hidden Knives, is boisterous and eager to gossip."
94,"The shopkeeper is clearly two gnomes with one on the other's shoulders, but they will never admit it. The two, Foggi Ysbeten and Grogel Grogelhome, take turns being the one on top, but never acknowledge the difference. They sell 'human-sized' equipment."
95,"The Broad's Boards: An extremely tall, stunningly attractive blonde woman named Nyss sells shields of different makes and models. Has some magic shields, some bucklers, and some tower shields too big for the average man."
96,"A Goliath, considered large even among his own tall people, known only as 'The Builder.' He crafts intricate toys, gadgets, and trinkets. Working from inside a wagon pulled by two Clydesdale horses, he hunches over his desk with a lantern and a magnifying glass, working his massive fingers to build tiny, detailed devices. If he meets a child, he always gives them a toy for free. He never accepts gold as payment, only more materials for crafting, or if the need arises, a personal favor. He can be commissioned to build specific devices, but prefers not to unless he knows the person well. He sticks to rural towns and villages and defends himself with a myriad of clockwork like devices that are beyond most people's understanding."
97,"Azaeli, A devilish tradesmen. A man of true evil. Holds some of the best gear around and sells them very low as well, but they come at a cost, Azaeli gives the buyer a quest of true evil intentions. Rather it be spreading a plague, or allowing crime syndicates to florish, a seemingly useless action that has large impact on the nearby areas. Azaeli has a pair of seemingly burning eyes, is often found to be wearing a top hat and very expensive silk clothing. In his backstory Azaeli, was once a normal True neutral, human warlock, until one day Azaeli attempted to banish a powerful demon. It succeeded but as soon as he cast it he was possessed causing a merge of souls. Azaeli became a devilish sellsman who roams the globe causing mayhem."
98,"Whilst walking through through the run down boroughs of a large city you spy a strange exchange down one of the numerous labyrinthine alleys. A rather large and motley crow sits upon a busted crate. At the base of the crate an alley cat, accompanied by a scraggly litter of kittens, approaches the crow and drops what looks to be a shiny piece rubbish. You look on as both the cat and the crow seem to converse, the low cawing of the crow meeting the desperate meows of the cat. Eventually some sort of accord seems to be struck, and the crow produces a large half eaten fish, dragging it from the crate and letting it plop down on the dirty ground bellow. Immediately the mother alley cat picks up the fish and darts off, her kittens tumbling along behind her. Those who wish to stay and observe the crow for longer will discover that all manner of strays, ferals and other wild denizens of the alleys approach the crow throughout the day, including one or two beggars and street kids. Each time something shiny is produced, and an item from the box given. Sometimes food, sometimes junk, and at one point even a dagger (given to a street kid) is pulled from the crate. At sundown several more crows gather at the spot in the alley and begin to fuss around the crate. Eventually they all take flight, labouring under a sack clearly laden with goods. They cary the sack high above the roof tops, eventually disappearing from sight, their mysterious trade having officially closed for the day."
99,"A series of animals who seem to run every magic shop the party goes's to. They're capable of communicating via telepathy, but mostly prefer to make animal noises. Probably the familiars of some old mage."
100,"A very short wizened old man with a wispy mustache. He runs a pet shop and seems to always be talking to himself. When someone enters his shop he will grab them by the elbow and begin walking them around to all the cages and kennels and tanks. No matter what they say, he'll respond with things like 'Yes, he is a bit tall, isn't he?' or 'Now don't be rude, he doesn't smell that bad.' or 'Ah yes, I remember. You don't want a single pet, you want to adopt a whole family.' Finally he gets to one animal and says 'Eh? This one looks good to you? Excellent!' He then picks them up out of the cage, hands them to the person - again, regardless of whatever the person is saying - and then says 'Now there is just the little matter of payment ...'. Which is when the animal bites or claws the person and then gives the store owner a single drop of blood. Because he doesn't sell pets to people, he sells people to pets."

d100,Entry

1,The town elder was brutally killed in his home on the full moon. Large claw marks lead to a local tavern.
2,Local blacksmith knows a little too much about the local killings. All the victims were killed by a well-crafted blade.
3,A young maiden husband just died. Funny enough she is about to get married to her new husband next week. That's the third husband that has died on her in two months.
4,"One of the party members wakes up to find his weapons are wet with blood. Later that day, someone turns up dead... with markings similar to the PC's weapons."
5,"A local official is dead. An ambassador from a rival kingdom/tribe/race/etc. happened to be in town that night, and members of the local military are ready to put him to death without further evidence."
6,"A woman is desperately seeking help. Every night, her family is brutally murdered. But they always wake up fine the next morning."
7,"An impoverished tween girl with a real force of personality begs you to help you sort out who's stealing her chickens. She's so poor she only has the chicken coop, and she sleeps in there; but there's another chicken missing every day."
8,"A tavern maiden appeared dead with what seems signs of an already known beast in the area, further investigation show that the beast died long ago."
9,"A local politician hung him/herself, leaving a suicide note. The surviving family insists a mind-control spell was used and that the letter is a forgery."
10,"The ne'er-do-well third child of a local noble family was found dead, encased in a ten-foot cube of ice floating down the local river."
11,"The local priest went missing. One anonymous tip later, and the body was found in a crypt that hasn't been entered in over 10 years."
12,The king/leader of the region was killed by masked assassins during a speech at a town fair.
13,"The party is invited to a mansion in the countryside along with a bunch of NPCs and receive a secret message from the host before they arrive. The host is terminally ill/cursed/bored of this whole 'living' thing and their life insurance doesn't cover natural death/insert other option here, but wants to go out with STYLE, and essentially writes the party into the will/policy/etc. if they stage a murder-mystery. Alternatively, the contractor is a murder mystery novel writer looking for a publicity stunt or something. Feel free to have either go sideways."
14,"Last week, a local wizard's apprentice turned him/herself into the local jail after confessing to killing their master in a laboratory accident. Investigators did a cursory inspection and found evidence of the accident, but no body. The supposedly dead wizard turns up alive within the week, claims a miraculous escape to another plane that took a week to return from, but refuses any sort of investigation. The apprentice dies in mysterious circumstances in jail overnight. (Wizard is secretly a lich.)"
15,"An entire family of hemophiliacs were slaughtered in their house. Some suspect an over-zealous monster hunter who mistook them for vampires, but is the truth darker than that?"
16,An elder red dragon takes the entire capital city hostage until someone can solve the mystery of the murder of its mate.
17,"The reed of a famously kind elven bard was poisoned, and she died playing in the local tavern the party was staying at. Who would target such a kind elf?"
18,"Bdeocles, a devilish imp and former familiar of fifty years has been accused of the murder of his/her master. The imp is a wicked tempter and a natural liar, but seemingly very earnest about not murdering the one long-time trustworthy friend the imp had on the prime plane."
19,Your party is attacked by two-dozen high-level mind flayer warriors and hauled off to their deep city. The mind flayers' high priest and the highest-ranked drow diplomat in their city were murdered. A war with the drow will likely break out unless the perpetrator is brought to justice. They also discovered they have all been infected with a memetic suggestion that prevents them from looking at the case objectively. Even the elder brain is affected. The brain came to the conclusion surface dwellers were needed to sort the mess out. Solve the case or have your brains eaten.
20,"In a locked basement, in an abandoned house, a skeleton/corpse is found starved to death. In their own words, carved into the walls they wrote who their killer is, but time has worn it away. Finding out would depend on finding the identity of the prisoner and discovering their history in the town."
21,A particularly hairy man is discovered near the woods with a silvered knife in his back.
22,"A local villager was recently killed by some kind of creature while out hunting. His body was returned for burial by his fellow hunting party. Yesterday, before the burial ceremony, his body has gone missing."
23,"Several patrons and a local lord running for governor died shortly after drinking his favorite spiced wine from a tavern. Funny enough, that spiced wine was a gift to the tavern from a rival lord running for governor, however, he claims innocence. Suddenly, the tavern owner joins the political race, shouting in the square about the brutality of the local lords and how they need to be replaced."
24,"A group of children went to a lake that supposedly can supposedly show the true form of whatever enters the lake. While skipping stones, the rocks appear to transform into numerous corpses. What psychopath has been killing villagers and how has no one noticed them missing?"
25,Victims in a small town are dying of blood loss overnight. The only problem? There are no wounds to show it.
26,"A group of elderly men, who are or were very prominent in the town (councilors, wealthy merchants, guild leaders etc.) start dying, one by one. At first it seems to be accidents, but soon it escalates to blatant murder. One of the numbers had died of natural causes sometime before, and his body was exhumed, mutilated, and his skull left in the house of one of the others. After the third death, two and two was put together and rumors begin to flow - this is exactly the group of men that were accused of the gang rape of a beautiful young teen girl, many years ago. They are now closing ranks again and have been seen visiting each other's houses to confer. At the time, the power of these men led to the girl's family abandoning her and accusing her of lying. She then disappeared, apparently fled to lead a life of her own."
27,"The town's woodworker was found murdered in his shop, lying over his workbench, a wood axe in his back. On the workbench are carving tools and shavings of a very expensive type of wood."
28,"A man was found on the street, seemingly died from a fall, but there are strange runic markings all over the victim’s body."
29,"A man is found dead, drained of blood. However, he holds a large holy symbol in his outstretched hand."
30,"An entire batch of home-brewed beverages sold in the market square were poisoned - 20 people are dead. Is it the work of a serial killer, or is the mass poisoning a cover for a specific slaying?"
31,A pair of twins are found dead by strangulation on opposite sides of the town; both seem to be killed at the same time. Each was found holding a small glass marble.
32,"A man is found slumped in his creaking rocking chair on the porch of his shack, congealed wax trailing from his head and encrusting his clothes. His bloody eyes, mouth and ears are each stuffed with a thick candle, wicks shouldering in the light breeze."
33,"The Lord was found murdered in the wine cellar; his body completely drained of blood. There were no marks of violence to his corpse. His son has ascended to his position, and despite the young man's previous know-nothing attitude, he's proven to be oddly adept at managing local affairs. Many have said he takes after his father to an uncanny degree."
34,"The party comes to a new town and stays the night at an inn. Everything seems normal, but when they go downstairs the next morning, they find the innkeeper and all the patrons from the previous night have been brutally slain. (Optional: the rest of the town has absolutely no reaction to this.)"
35,"A special item is going to be shipped in secret to his future owner across the sea. The crew has a heated disagreement at the port tavern for some reason (between them, or with a local or the captain finds his daughter with one of them). The captain spends the night prior to the departure at a private lodging, after some business. In the morning of the departure, the captain is nowhere to be seen on the ship, the already stowed away item is missing, and a boy is screaming bloody murder on a back alley. It's the captain with a bludgeoned head and pierced heart. A chip of a half-orc tooth is found nearby, as well as a delicate earing inside the captain's pocket."
36,"You, the party, awake in the morning to find you are dead. You’ve been murdered in your sleep, and now as spirits flirting between the ethereal and material plane you must solve your murder and find some way back into your cold bodies, lest you be really dead, like, forever."
37,You are in an inn and you hear a commotion you run towards it and enter the room the only person in the room is dead and has no pants. Upon further inspection the pants are nowhere to be found.
38,"A powerful magic inducer is brought to town (think transformers' allspark). A scholar at the nearby museum dies during the night as if he was being chased by some weird monster (pixies, orc, you choose). A new painting has been delivered the week prior and might shed some answers to the death. The inducer created a night at the museum scenario and some paintings from a specific wizardly artist gained life and roamed during the night. The scholar wasn't particularly amicable but had great knowledge and might have had relevant information for the party."
39,"The PCs are asked to investigate a local mining company that is producing over three, sometimes four, times the usual amount of processed ores than expected, with the miners having no memories of working their shifts in the newest, deepest shaft. The smelting workers claim that the ore was never processed by them and show proof that it uses an older, now-banned technique."
40,"Your adoptive Mother, who took care of you and your brothers in childhood on orphanage was found dead in the woods with an amulet from one your brothers."
41,"A Cranium Rat approaches the party and asks for their help. Someone in town has been killing Cranium Rats to the exclusion of killing other forms of rodent pests and somehow, the psychic connection between the Cranium Rats breaks before death, denying the Hive from knowing their killer."
42,"An apprentice to the community's wizard is in jail for killing his master. It seems a Clay Golem they were building tore the head off the wizard and then ran into the woods. The only people who could have given orders to the Golem were the wizard and his apprentice so it’s obvious the apprentice did it, yet he claims he is innocent."
43,"Two powerful wizards have been feuding for years, but until today it was always fairly civil: written letters, disputations published in scholarly circles, and the occasional annoying and irritating curse (May your nose hair grow ten feet!). Today one of the wizards was found dead in his/her lab with the other wizard's dagger in his/her back."
44,"The Local Lord's poison taster fell grievously ill during a dinner party and everyone panicked. The Chef and all of her staff were arrested on grounds of attempted murder, the Alchemist was seen in the kitchens and so he too was arrested, and the King's cup bearer is under suspicion as well. On top of it all, the neighboring Lord is riding about the border 'hunting bandits' and sending patrols into the local county..."
45,"A serial killer is loose on town! The fourth body has been discovered and all share a shocking trait: each one is a dwarf, recently come to town to work the nearby mines. Is someone targeting dwarves or is there another link between them? And why now?"
46,A prominent businessman in the timber industry goes missing. His body can be found with a tree growing from his chest in the forest.
47,"A righteous, or perhaps not so righteous warband/military unit, was completely slaughtered overnight in their fort. There are signs of a massive battle, but all the carnage is within the walls."
48,"First it was random children of peasants that had gone missing. When the city watch began investigating, the children of watchmen started disappearing! Can the PCs, who have been selected because they have no family, determine the cause of the child abductions? Without endangering any other children?"
49,"The entirety of a town gets invited to the noble‘s annual dinner party at his colossal mansion. Shortly after all the guests have arrived the noble has seemed to have disappeared, but his body was found later with a dagger in his back. Then the lower-class guests start disappearing and dying in various different ways. The killings seem to be gradually going up the social ladder."
50,"An adventurer asks you to solve their own murder. They and their party were exploring a dungeon, but got separated, then the adventurer was killed instantly, but the body was later found and resurrected. The only people that should have been in the dungeon were their own party."
51,In the evening a bard gives a song in gruesome detail of a brutal murder. The next day a body is discovered that is multiple days old but matches the description of the bard.
52,"In the middle of a stunning performance, the band's lead singer and bard were murdered! The culprit was covered by the mist and fog created by the band's crew as special effects, who could have killed them on stage in the middle of all this chaos?!"
53,"A little boy is found slain inside a locked room; his throat slit. A doll, his favorite, of a small woodcutter is found on the floor next to him. In its tiny hands is a tiny knife."
54,"A man is found dead in his home, his body completely drained of blood. All 1.5 gallons of his blood have been neatly stored in glass jars around the corpse."
55,"Corpses have been showing up near the town. They all have the odd quirk of the victims seemingly asleep, if it weren't for the total lack of all organs and the corpses randomly being cut into pieces with near surgical precision. Also, the town's medics are all clerics, with nobody having the sort of precision tools or skills to cut super finely through bone."
56,"The party receives a letter from a noble, calling them forth to his court. Soon, he reveals that a threat of murder is afoot. A devil walks among them, and the party must route them out."
57,"A family moved away from the village further into unsettled territory. It has been almost a month since anyone has heard from them, and it appears that after some madness and violent ends, the surviving family fled to a lighthouse owned by a relative."
58,"Tasked to retrieve an item from an old castle and village, the party, contractor, and an extra crew make their way there to loot the location. However, as storm sets in and a crew member is found dead, something foul is afoot."
59,"Seemingly out of nowhere, a screaming body comes plummeting towards the ground. It appears to have maybe been aimed at someone..."
60,"A few days after the party where the local woodworker was drunkenly bragging to a PC about how he has a shipment of rare wood used for detailing and instruments, he was found dead, murdered with his own wood axe."
61,"The party arrives at a port city and finds tensions running high. The local nobility, guild masters, working class and underworld are in a four-way standoff over expected payments, quality of products and working conditions: negotiations were already tense and then the first body showed up. So far, the victims have been the children of working-class leaders, but now the daughter of a prominent and universally respected guild master (thought to be the best chance at a peaceful resolution) has vanished. The cities ruling family has been silent on the matter, mercenaries are pouring into the city and maritime trade has dropped sharply..."
62,"The party wakes up in the crypts of a large town or city, with no recollection of their deaths and each carrying an invitation to a formal event, dated two days ago. Investigating the event's location reveals that it is currently locked up by the city guard to investigate a mass killing, the victims being the party members themselves!"
63,"Tragedy erupts in the quiet hamlet of Miramide, as the morning patrol finds the body of the woodworker, murdered in the night. All apparent evidence points to the murder being the work of Illid, a golem created for the express purpose of protecting Miramide."
64,A room at the local brothel was found covered in blood with drag marks leading to the nearby river.
65,"A series of brutal killings are going on, every month a new victim is found torn to shreds by a wild animal. At first the town suspected Mr. Lazuli as he got bitten by a werewolf last spring and the local priest hasn’t come to remove the curse. Only these killings take place on a New Moon, while Mr. Lazuli transforms on a full moon ..."
66,"The city has a serial killer on its hands! Maybe? There’s a new death every few weeks, but always killed in a new way, cut, shot, impaled, tortured. The strange thing is the victims look identical, not like anyone the police recognize. But the bodies are all the same man. Dying with a grin on his face ..."
67,"A lich wants you to solve his own murder. He insists on coming along with you to play “good cop, bad cop”."
68,"A mysterious man in red has been killing violent criminals and corrupt officials throughout the city. The mayor was positively gleeful at first, but ever since his cousin’s ties to a crime ring have been made public, he’s been pressing the guards and bounty hunters to find and capture the man in red under the mantra; “Vengeance is not justice!”."
69,"The man in red, a vigilante who’s been killing violent criminals and corrupt politicians in the city, has been found dead. The city guard aren’t touching this case because the man in red had powerful enemies, and it looks like one of them had him killed."
70,A person explodes in a gout of fire. Then 2 more nearby. A creature is possessing these victims before they ignite. Then the creature turns on the players! It could be that the victims (or at least one of them) are connected somehow. Are there more victims throughout the city? It's clear that the heroes must find this out before it happens again! Chasing the clues might reveal that the creature was summoned and specifically targeted (at least one of) the victims! What do the players do when they find out that original summoner is attacked? Did the victim(s) deserve it? Is the threat resolved? Does the creature make another attack?
71,"Household 'Otto-Servant' warforged automatons have recently become a trend among the well to do. The inventor sends a message to the players asking for help using an unassuming middleman as cutout. It seems the inventor fears for their life. Then the inventor is attacked by one their inventions! Rumors of the devices spread like wildfire, and copycat attacks seem to be happening! Can the players protect the life of the inventor, and prove that the automaton WASNT the source of the attack? Has the inventor died by the clamps of their own creation? Perhaps there is a competing product being used to ruin the inventor’s reputation! Maybe the inventor stole the idea, and the original creator is getting revenge?"
72,No Body at all. Victim of a disintegrate spell.
73,"A body is found with no visible injuries on the outside, but an autopsy reveals the internal organs have been burned and melted together. (Heat metal on a surgical implant.)"
74,"A man was seen crying in the middle of the street. When someone tried to pull him out, he screamed and collapsed dead. Autopsy reveals heart attack. (Mental Prison)."
75,"A large number of people have seemingly contracted a dancing sickness. They keep dancing no matter what. Ones without anyone to feed/water them die of thirst. (9th level mass suggestion, which lasts 'a year and a day')"
76,A wealthy brewer was found dead of extreme dehydration. (Blight)
77,A body is found with what appears to be a plant growing out of its mouth. (The victim consumed some seeds and a Druid caused them to rapidly grow inside the victim’s body.)
78,A man mysteriously dropped dead during a heated argument. It appears to be a freak accident but a detect magic spell reveals he was killed with psychic damage. (The other person in the argument killed him with vicious mockery.)
79,"A town guard is found dead having been cooked alive, but his armor is fine. Upon close examination the armor is slightly warped from extreme heat. (Heat Metal)"
80,Victim has several holes blown through their body; autopsy shows signs of acute blunt force trauma. (Magic Missile)
81,"Victim dropped dead for no apparent reason, autopsy showed that all vital organs seized up at once and their heart had completely decayed. (Power word: Kill)"
82,"Victim found foaming at mouth and showing signs of a Seizure, Autopsy found that their brain had boiled in their own skull (Synaptic Static/Mind Spike)"
83,"Victim’s lower half found but other half has not been located, cut appears completely clean having gone through their armor with little apparent resistance (A creative use of Gateway/Astral Gate)"
84,"A house was destroyed and all inside were killed. Strangely, half of the house exploded outward in an incredible fireball, the embers of which are still too hot to approach. While the other half was encased in a sheet of ice so cold that touching it with a body part requires the skin to be pulled off to let go. If you pass a high arcana check you realize that the murder was most likely caused by someone using the demon Maxwell."
85,"Body frozen solid, found in an environment not cold enough to freeze it."
86,"Body melted into goo. Only identifiable by the clothing, equipment & jewelry, that the victim had on them at the time."
87,Body partially phased through a wall or other solid object.
88,"Body transformed into sand. Only identifiable by the clothing, equipment, & jewelry, that the victim had on them at the time."
89,"Skeletal remains of someone who was alive just a day ago. Identified by clothing, equipment, and bone injuries that the victim suffered during life."
90,"Witnesses say the victim was struck by lightning, while inside a building."
91,"Body found in an alley behind a well-known tavern that is frequented by high societal patrons who don’t want to know or seen visiting with specific types of people. (Thieves, murderers for hire, drug dealers. Dealers of other material that is not quite common to keep around.)"
92,"A body apparently exploded into large chunks, a significant amount of mess on the floor but no blood on the walls. (Flesh to stone, topple the statue, dispel)."
93,"In the city’s main temple, a well-known noble is found dead in the inner sanctum. It is known there is only one way in or out, and it is by being accompanied by a member of the temple’s high court. Upon investigation, the cause of death appears to hanging (broken neck and rope burn around the neck) but there is no rope to be found and nowhere in the sanctum to be hung from. (Rope Trick)."
94,"A roughly circular area in the slums of the city contains an emaciated corpse, several dead rats, and a good number of dead insects. (Circle of Death)."
95,A body that clearly feel from the sky in the middle of town with no trees or real buildings around.
96,"An archeological dig at an ancient tomb has been going on for weeks. But the crew are no fools. They've brought in experts and priests to avoid traps and curses the place has on it, as well as hiring the party to take out any other threats that lurk in the depths. It's good pay for several days of killing bulettes, cloakers, umber hulks, and the occasional mummy that may arise, etc. There are protests by the locals of disturbing a sacred site, vocal but nothing violent. The head archeologists are very secretive however, and seem to be searching for something specific, dismissive of other treasures. Then, one night, the main team is found dead in their study area, lungs filled with sand, clutching at their latest notes."
97,"The dock-master has gone missing for several days, and the harbor is in disarray, wondering where he went. That is, until a group of children find his body tied up and beaten to death in their secret cove hideout that they thought only they knew about. The bruises look like they were made by a fist wearing rings on each finger. In the dock-master's inside coat pocket is a letter blackmailing him with instructions to find and come to this cove."
98,"A hermit witch is both feared and revered by the locals for her seemingly dark powers but also the magical potions and tonics she sells to the village to fix various mundane problems like hair loss or love interests. Last night, a horrible, blood-curdling scream was heard throughout the entire village, coming from the remote hut. Upon investigation, the witch is nowhere to be found, except with a message scrawled on blood on the floor: 'THE BLASPHEMOUS AND HER FLOCK SHALL BE PUNISHED'. The villagers are begging you to find the culprit and save them from whatever is coming."
99,"A collection of incredibly realistic sculptures are found in the courtyard of a local noble's home, delivered with a single letter signed 'W'. Each statue depicts a different member of his family in the exact garbs they were wearing the night before, when they had coincidentally been at a dinner party. They had returned much later than expected..."
100,An experienced herbalist is found dead in their ransacked store. There is no sign of struggle.

d100,Entry

1,"Rune of the Wind: When an enemy is struck with this weapon, the must make a DEX saving throw or be blown back 5 ft."
2,Rune of the Squirrel: Grants advantage to the acrobatics skill.
3,Rune of the Dog: Grants advantage to the animal handling skill.
4,Rune of the Raven: Grants advantage to the arcana skill.
5,Rune of the Bear: Grants advantage to the athletics skill.
6,Rune of the Snake: Grants advantage to the deception skill.
7,Rune of the Elephant: Grants advantage to the history skill.
8,Rune of the Owl: Grants advantage to the insight skill.
9,Rune of the Lion: Grants advantage to the intimidation skill.
10,Rune of the Crow: Grants advantage to the investigation skill.
11,Rune of the Lobster: Grants advantage to the medicine skill.
12,Rune of the Elk: Grants advantage to the nature skill.
13,Rune of the Eagle: Grants advantage to the perception skill.
14,Rune of the Peacock: Grants advantage to the performance skill.
15,Rune of the Feline: Grants advantage to the persuasion skill.
16,Rune of the Mantis: Grants advantage to the religion skill.
17,Rune of the Spider: Grants advantage to the sleight of hand skill.
18,Rune of the Chameleon: Grants advantage to the stealth skill.
19,Rune of the Cockroach: Grants advantage to the survival skill.
20,"Rune of Orcus: any humanoid creature of size large or smaller killed by this weapon rises as a zombie under your control for 20 minutes. After 20 minutes, the zombie collapses and turns back into a corpse."
21,"Rune of Confusion: every time a creature is hit by this weapon, it must make a charisma saving throw against a DC equal to 8 + wielders prof bonus + wielders strength modifier (or dex if it’s a finesse weapon). On a failed save, the creature has disadvantage on its next attack against the wielder. Once a creature succeeds against this saving throw, this rune no longer affects it until its next long rest."
22,"Rune of Defense Crushing: each time a creature is hit by this weapon, it must make a strength saving throw against a DC equal to 8 + wielders prof bonus + wielders strength modifier (or dex if it’s a finesse weapon). On a failed save, the creatures armor class is lowered by 1. This rune may not bring a creatures armor class below 10 + their dexterity modifier."
23,Rune of Unjo (Joy and Wellness): The bearer of this rune is able to stave off one level of exhaustion.
24,Rune of Hagalaz (Chaos and Destruction): The bearer of this rune can cast Thunderwave once per day.
25,Rune of Pertho (Protection from enemies): The bearer of this rune can cast Protection from Evil one per day.
26,"Rune of Ehwaz (Trust, faith and companionship): the bearer of this rune can cast Bless once per day."
27,"Rune of Swordbreaker: If the wielder is attacked with melee weapon and the attack is a critical failure, the player can break the attacker's weapon."
28,Rune of Leaden Steps: adds 10 pounds to the target's weight on each attack.
29,Rune of Vaporization: Once a day you can submerge the weapon into water and vaporize 1d20 cubic feet of water.
30,"Rune of Returning: Once etched on the weapon, it allows the user to call the weapon into their hand if it's within 10 ft."
31,Rune of Safety: Renders the edges/points of the weapon dull when children touch the weapon.
32,"Rune of Green Thumbs: If the weapon to be planted in soil, a 30 foot tall tree will out of it in 1d4 days. The weapon is destroyed in the process."
33,"Rune of Invisibility: Makes the weapon appear invisible to all, except for those designated by the rune-maker."
34,"Rune of Poison Detection: If the weapon is dipped into poisoned food, the hilt changes color. The colors return to normal once poisoned is removed from the weapon."
35,"Rune of Screaming: When the weapon this rune is inscribed upon strikes an enemy, the target must make a Wisdom saving throw with a 13 DC. If it fails, the target starts screaming uncontrollably for 1d10 minutes and is terrified of the attacker."
36,Rune of the Cliff: Allows the casting of Featherfall on command.
37,"Rune of the Worg: This weapon seems easy to hold in your mouth, you don't know why. You can now use your mouth as an 'arm' to hold this weapon - even if it requires two hands. You also know how to run on four legs like a beast (Your speeds increases by 10 ft. while doing so). You have disadvantage to make weapon attacks with your arms."
38,"Rune of the Gryphon: When this weapon is swung upward, your jump distance is multiplied per 10. If you manage to hit an enemy while falling, you ignore all falling damage. If you keep swinging this weapon while spinning you might fly..."
39,"Rune of the Manticore: The weapon inscribed starts growing 1d10 spikes each day that, if removed, can be thrown as daggers with the range of a Longbow, or used as ammunition for the inscribed weapon. A weapon can have up to 10 spikes if one handed or 30 if two handed. The spikes seem very efficient for impaling or piercing hard surfaces like rock. If you leave a spike grow for a week, it becomes the length of a short sword; for a month of a longsword; for two months of a spear and for three months of a pike. All these weapons can be thrown at the range of a Longbow."
40,Rune of Fire: This weapon's damage type has changed to fire.
41,Rune of Ice: This weapon's damage type has changed to ice.
42,"Rune of Mirrors: Once per short rest, as a bonus action, the user can break this weapon into two identical copies of the original. If either copy leaves the possession of the character who broke the weapon in two, the copy disappears and the effect is ended."
43,"Rune of the Firebreather: This weapon, when slashed, creates a ten-foot line of fire. All creatures in the line must make DEX save or take 1d6 Fire damage."
44,"Rune of Echoes: The wielder must make a noise into the enchanted weapon. When this weapon attacks, it leaves behind a rune on the target object. This rune continues to repeat the noise that the wielder recorded earlier, acting as a distraction."
45,"Rune of the Kebab (pike or spear only): As an Action, you cause the weapon to grow outward then retract in a 30 ft. line. Make an attack against every creature in this line."
46,Rune of Helium: Once in a long rest as a bonus action you can put your weapon in front of your neck and make your voice squeakier like that of a mouse. You have an advantage on performances check and intimidation check against Large or larger creatures that are capable of hearing you.
47,Rune of Sulfur Hexafluoride: Once in a long rest as a bonus action you can put your weapon in front of your neck and make your voice deeper like that of a dragon. You have an advantage on performances check and intimidation check against Medium or smaller creatures that are capable of hearing you.
48,"Rune of Wild Magic: On a critical hit with this weapon, roll on the Wild Magic Surge table to create a random magical effect."
49,"Rune of Snail Shell: This weapon or shield is nearly unbreakable by non-magical means, however becomes so dense and heavy that it effectively eliminates any dex bonus the player has to their AC."
50,Rune of the Bull: Any weapon or shield this rune is attached too gives the player advantage on attempts to shove large or smaller creatures. Shove attempts send the target back 5 feet more than usual.
51,"Rune of the Phoenix Feather: This rune provides the item it is slotted in, to turn into flames dealing 1 fire damage per round to players and creatures unless they have fire resistance. The item magically reforms if it is ever destroyed."
52,"Rune of Absorbing: Once per day, you can spend a minute to change the material of the weapon to any material that it is in contact with."
53,"Rune of the Open Door (any bludgeoning weapon): This weapon deals double damage against structures. Any damage done to the structure using this weapon does not affect the stability of the structure. (For instance, this weapon can create a hole in a load-bearing wall while the rest of the building is unaffected). This structural protection effect ends after 1d4 hours."
54,"Rune of Terran Blessing: The wielder cannot be knocked prone by any environmental hazards (earthquakes, slippery ground, falling rocks, etc.)."
55,"Rune of Heaven's Fan: when this weapon is swung, a gust of cool wind is released, extinguishing fires and briefly turning the ambient temperature tolerable regardless of its previous state. Twice a day, the wielder can slash the weapon downwards to create a 40-ft long, 5-ft wide blast of downwards wind that forces everyone hit to make a STR save or be knocked prone (if flying, they'll fall out of the air), with DC potentially modified by one's own eight. This ability slaps most projectiles out of the air, and can be used as a reaction to a projectile attack."
56,"Rune of Time's Shadow: any attack made with this weapon is repeated by a translucent, phantasmal shadow of it on the next turn at the same location. That shadow attack does the same damage, but can only hit an enemy in the same space as the original attack's target."
57,"Rune of Death's Tongues: any successful hit with this weapon causes hungry, flesh-eating worms to spontaneously appear where the weapon hit. As they burrow into the wound, they prevent regeneration from the damage dealt, and deal 1d6-4 poison damage each subsequent round for 1d10 subsequent rounds."
58,"Rune of Fire's Wake: things hit by this weapon release a cloud of thick smoke that visually obscures an area of 10ft radius. Enemies or at least partially empty containers hit by this weapon fill up with a thick smoke. Those hit make a CON save as their respiratory system fills up completely with smoke; on a success, they expend their upcoming bonus action to cough out the smoke, but on a failure, they lose their upcoming action to do so."
59,"Rune of the Journey: any enemy hit by this weapon makes a WIS save; otherwise, they will spend their upcoming movement to double back on the last turn of movement they took. If this takes less movement than their speed, they can use the remainder of this turn's movement normally. If doubling back proves impossible (e.g. on the last turn they moved, they dropped from a high ledge, but on this turn it's impossible for them to jump back up onto that ledge) they will still try to go back on that path if a logical alternative (in this example, climbing a nearby staircase to get to that ledge) is obvious to them. If no logical alternative presents itself, the effect is broken."
60,"Rune of the Immanence: the wielder may cast Misty Step once per day. With the proper material components, the wielder may cast Plane Shift once per day."
61,Rune of the Inhabitance: the wielder gains the effects of a short rest on a critical hit with this weapon.
62,"Rune of Fehu (Wealth, Fulfillment, Fire): the wielder of this weapon may activate this rune once per day for the duration of one encounter, causing the weapon to burst into golden flames that deal extra fire damage. Successful hits while the rune is active cause 2d10 gp to fall from where it hit."
63,"Rune of Gifu (Gifts): the wielder of this weapon can freely teleport this weapon into the hands of another creature they can see within 120 feet. This method of transference does not harm the recipient, but will displace any objects they are currently holding. This ability stores three charges and regains one charge per day."
64,Rune of Alliance's Might: this weapon gains 1d6 extra damage of the type it would normally deal per person allied with the wielder in 60ft.
65,Rune of the Carousel: Causes sentient beings struck by the weapon to spin uncontrollably at a fairly high speed for a few seconds. The affected must pass a DC 7 Constitution check or lose their turn as they try to regain their bearings and not vomit.
66,Rune of Refraction (Melee Weapon Only): The weapon refracts light strangely causing it to look broken (e.g. when observing a straw above and below water-line at an angle) causing everyone but the wielder to have trouble discerning its actual location. +1D4 to Attack Rolls & +1 AC against Melee Attacks to adjust for enemies not being able to block/dodge as easily while giving them mild motion sickness as they attempt to track the actual location of your weapon.
67,"Rune of a Stranger: Once per long rest, if you invoke this ability, every creature in the battle has to succeed a DC 10 WIS save or forget your alliance for one round."
68,"Rune of Enlarging: When you touch this rune as a bonus action your weapon becomes bulky and now has the Heavy Tag. During this time your weapon deals an extra 1d6 of damage on each successful attack. This transformation ends after 1 minute, if you drop the weapon or if you touch the Rune again as a bonus action. Using this ability on a weapon that already has the Heavy Tag has no effect."
69,"Rune of the Goose: On your turn, you may reduce your bonus to hit by half when you make an attack. On a successful hit, the target must make a DC 8 + your weapon's bonus to hit Wisdom saving throw, or become frightened for 1 minute. The affected creature may repeat the saving throw at the end of each of its turns. Once you use this rune, you cannot use it again until after a short or long rest. You may apply up to 3 Rune of the Gooses to gain additional uses of this feature between rests, 1 use for each rune."
70,"Rune of the Dawn/Zenith/Dusk/Midnight Shine: During the corresponding time of day, lasting two hours, the weapon shines as under the effect of the Light cantrip, and deals an extra 1d10 radiant damage. (Upon rolling the rune, you may roll a d4 to determine the corresponding time of day.)"
71,"Rune of Bloodlust: While using the weapon, you can enter a rage once per long rest, with the features of a level 3 Barbarian's rage (minus Primal Path benefits). If you have a Barbarian level greater than 3, you may use your own rage features (including Primal Path ones) while entering this rage."
72,"Rune of Melody: In combat, the weapon emits a soft, musical humming. With practice, you may use the weapon as an instrument."
73,"Rune of Celestial/Fey/Fiend/Elemental/Undead Slaying: The weapon shines when a creature of the appropriate type is 30 ft. or closer. The wielder is protected from those creatures as by the Protection From Evil And Good spell, and the weapon deals an extra 1d6 damage against them."
74,Rune of Foresight: You can use the weapon once to cast Augury as a 2nd-level spell per short rest. Wisdom is your spellcasting ability for this spell.
75,"Rune of True Strike: Every time you attack, roll a d10. On a 10, you gain advantage on your attack roll and, upon a successful hit, you can roll for damage twice and choose either result."
76,"Rune of Vampirism: Every time you hit, roll a d4. On a 4, you regain an amount of hp equal to half the inflicted damage."
77,"Rune of Arcane Storage: You may store up to 5 levels' worth of spell slots within the rune. Doing so requires 10 minutes per level, consumes the spell slot, and counts as a ritual. If you are touching the rune while casting a spell, you may choose to consume an amount of stored levels equal to the level of the spell instead of your own spell slots."
78,"Rune of Truth: When a creature speaks a deliberate lie within 15 ft. of the rune, the weapon vibrates slightly for a few seconds. Detecting this vibration is no challenge, unless the wielder isn't paying attention to the weapon's response."
79,"Rune of Speed: While holding the weapon, you can use the Dash action as a bonus action on each of your turns."
80,Rune of Wild Magic: On a critical failure using the weapon to attack triggers a Wild Magic Surge. Effects that require targeting are directed at the creature closest to the wielder.
81,Rune of Aquan Blessing: Wielder's base speed increases by 10 ft. anytime it is raining or they are standing at least ankle deep in water.
82,"Rune of the Primordial: Wielder can speak Primordial, and has advantage on Charisma checks on creatures that understand it."
83,"Rune of Transformation: As a bonus action, on a successful Intelligence skill check, the wielder may cause the weapon to turn into any other weapon they are proficient with. No ammunition is produced this way. The weapon reverts to its true form after one hour or if the wielder loses hold of it."
84,"Rune of Reflexes: You can use an extra opportunity attack per turn with this weapon, in addition to your reaction."
85,"Rune of Bombardment: You can activate this rune with a power word of your choice. One turn after activation, the weapon will produce a 3rd-level Fireball spell centered on itself. This destroys the weapon."
86,Rune of Vanishing: The last rune to be carved into the item. Upon completion all runes carved into the item vanish from sight and are only visible to the creator of the item.
87,"Rune of Life: This greater rune of enchantment gives item wielder immortality. He will not age, get sick or be harmed by poison. Normal damage and weapons will still kill him."
88,"Rune of Alarm: This rune will begin to glow (or emit audible alarm) when certain type of creature (Dragonkind, undead, bald men...) approaches within certain range."
89,"Rune of Possession: Unless the weapon is freely given or taken from its owner upon their death, this rune refuses to be attuned to another person. In addition, non-owners take -4 penalty on attack rolls if they attempt to use in the first round of combat. Subsequent rounds of combat, the weapon heats up and the holder takes 1d4 points of damage."
90,"Rune of Sundering: When using the weapon to sunder objects, take a +4 bonus to attack rolls."
91,Rune of Spirit: Grants +2 morale bonus to attack rolls. In addition the weapon gains the ghost touch trait.
92,Rune of Auran Blessing: Wielder gains advantage on Animal Handling checks against creatures with a natural flight speed.
93,"Rune of Returning: When the weapon is lost or stolen, it will always return to its true owner's side after one long rest, along with one-piece ammunition if it's a ranged weapon."
94,Rune of the Impersonnel: Once per turn when melee attacking using this weapon you can teleport to the opposite side of the creature.
95,"Runs of Diplomacy: This rune allows the user to cast comprehend languages 3 times per short rest, the rune also gives you proficiency in the persuasion skill, however, due to the rune’s desire for peace, the rune gives -2 to attack and damage rolls against good aligned creatures."
96,"Rune of Stone: Typically engraved on mauls, maces, and hammers, it is found on some heavy swords. This rune, it's said, makes your weapon unbreakable in battle, and allows you to smash through enemy defenses, and cut through stone as if it were flesh."
97,"Rune of Bees: Once per long or short rest, this rune allows the user to summon a swarm of bees to deal 2d4+2 Piercing or Poison damage as a bonus action. The user also gains a strange fondness for flowers."
98,"Rune of the Duelist: When targeted by an enemy melee attack, you may impose disadvantage on the attack as a reaction. If the melee attack misses, you may attack the enemy who just attacked you."
99,"Rune of Ignan Blessing: Natural flames in the area around the wielder glow brighter and hotter, shedding light an extra 10 ft. and dealing an extra 1d4 damage when applicable."
100,"Rune of Runes: On a critical hit, the rune glows brightly and an additional rune forms on the weapon. Roll a d100 on this table to determine the newly added rune. On a critical miss, a rune disappears. If the Rune of Runes is the only remaining rune and you critical miss, the Rune of Runes disappears."

d100,Entry

1,The Judge - A massive two-handed sword that receives a +2 to damage to any evil creature. The Judge can also emit a powerful light once a day that can light the Paladin's path in times of darkness.
2,"Demonslayer Shield: A small shield that gives +2 AC, as well as 1d6+Religion Modifier damage reduction from demons, fiends, and devils, as a reaction. (Like deflect missiles for a monk)"
3,"The Headsman: A two-handed executioner's sword (double-edged blade with a blunt, squared-off tip) that deals slashing damage. An inscription on the blade reads: I lift this blade so this poor sinner may find redemption, even if it be in death. +1 to attack and damage rolls when wielded by a Paladin. This bonus increases at the DM's discretion as the player performs greater and greater acts showing devotion to their chosen God."
4,"Bulwark of the Ancients: Seemingly made of stone, perhaps a slab from an ancient temple or tomb. Adorned on the front is a scowling, bearded face with leaves and roots for hair, challenging any would-be opponents to stand the test of time. Tower Shield with +3 AC. Once per day, can be slammed into the ground casting entangle in front of the shield. A medium or smaller creature can use their action to take cover behind the shield, gaining 3/4 cover from ranged attacks."
5,"Aegis of the Pure of Heart: A ragged and stained tabard of great age that automatically removes a single harmful disease, poison, curse, affliction or other condition from the paladin who wears it 3x per day. If the paladin breaks any of their vows or oaths while wearing the Aegis, or does so and then subsequently dons this garment, they are immediately subject to every condition the Aegis has removed while worn by that particular paladin for double the full duration."
6,"Dawnbreaker: A large warhammer covered in vaguely luminescent engravings. On a critical hit, it deals an additional 2d8 radiant damage. The speaker is compelled to say 'Dawn has broken'."
7,"Circlet of Command: 3 times per day, you may expend your reaction to force an individual targeted by the spell Command to roll their saving throw with disadvantage."
8,"Warhorse’s Bridle: Appears to be a mundane leather bracelet. Expending a bonus action causes it to grow into an appropriate bridle for the Mount summoned by Find Steed, and it can be applied to that mount in the same bonus action. The bridle increases the damage die of a single one of your mount’s natural attacks by 1d6, and its damage type becomes magical. If your mount does not ordinarily have an attack, it gains one."
9,"Saving Grace: A five-petaled flower made in the image of a long-extinct variety of summer flower. When worn by a paladin, they may spend 2 hours of a long rest in prayer to dedicate the symbol to their god, promising increased adherence to their Oaths. It takes on an aspect of their deity or purpose - a war god would turn the petals into blades, a sun god would turn it to a sunburst, a god of life would revitalize the petals, while a vengeance or conquest paladin may cause the petals to take on an aspect of grimness, manacles, or drops of blood, etc. Once dedicated thusly, the Paladin may expend a use of their Channel Divinity feature to automatically succeed at a saving throw. This must be done before choosing to roll. This ability can only be used once per Day. A petal drops from the item each time this occurs. Two hours of each long rest must be used in this fashion until the item is used up, else it loses all petals and incurs the displeasure of the deity in question - at the DM’s discretion, you roll your saving throws at disadvantage for (# unused petals) days."
10,"The Golden Rose: This tower shield is engraved with a twisting vine culminating in a single rose. For each devil- or demon-kind killed while wielding the shield, a bit of the vine begins to glow with golden light, starting from the bottom and working its way up. Upon the 10th killing of a devil- or demon-kind the rose itself flares in a pure, brilliant golden light, dealing 4d6 radiant damage to all within a 20 foot radius. After that the shield goes dark and the tally begins again. A paladin’s work is never done..."
11,"Midas: A mighty greataxe, gleaming with gold accents, who smites it's enemies with style. On a Critical Hit, the target must make a DC 15 Con Saving Throw or be petrified, as their body begins to harden into gold. On the targets next three turns, it can retry the saving throw. If none succeed, or if one of the saving throws is a Critical Failure, the target is permanently turned to gold."
12,Gloves of Radiance: These gloves are highly conspicuous. They made of a silvery metal and constantly glow with a bright radiant light. This light grants a advantage on charisma checks not involving deception but imposes disadvantage on all stealth checks. It provides illumination as a torch. Every point of healing applied via lay on hands while wearing these gloves heals 1 additional point.
13,Leap of Faith (Boots or Greaves) - Attuned Allows the wearer to make up to 3 steps/foot placements onto nothing/dead space as if it were solid ground in any direction. Each step has a duration of 3 seconds and once the foot is lifted off of the step it is no longer usable.
14,"God’s Grasp (Gauntlets or Bracers) - Attuned +1 STR (Not exceeding 20), Advantage on Grappling and on saving throws vs losing/dropping Weapon, +1d6 DMG using hand to hand combat, +1d4 DMG on all other STR melee attacks."
15,Virtuous Visage (Armet Style Helm) - Attuned +1 HP(Not to exceed max hp) to wearer whenever wearer deals Radiant DMG on an evil creature. Wearer has advantage on persuasion checks when the Truthfulness of the situation has meaning (DM discretion) Wearer has disadvantage on deception checks and any rolls regarding “Amorous” actions or conversations.
16,"Gavel of God - Wondrous, Legendary 2H GreatMaul - Attuned - 4d6 Radiant Damage 30ft aura that gives every ally in range advantage on saving throws vs spells. +3 attack/dmg rolls. Fiends and Undead take +50% more dmg when struck with this holy weapon."
17,"Cloak of Curing (or cape) - White w/ Silver inlay While wearing creature is impervious to disease (exceptions: Vampirism and Lycanthropy) and receives +1 Hit Die Laying this garment upon a dying creature stabilizes it. Food washed/dried with this garment are purified. Wearer has Advantage on stealth checks in Snowy environments and Disadvantage in all other biomes. Upon removal CON saving throw DC7 - Success: Minor Ailment, Failure: Major Ailment, Nat20: No ailments."
18,"Shield of Wondrous Power - Magic Item +1 AC - Attunement for following Power: Bearer May summon a Snow Leopard from the astral plane by calling it’s name. When summoned a snow leopard is formed out a snowy mist within 5ft of summoner. The cat understands common and follows the orders of the summoner. If the creature is slain while summoned it will return to the astral plane and live on, but if the shield is destroyed the item becomes worthless and loses all enchantment. The feline may be summoned for up to 24 hours, but must rest for 2x that amount of time in the astral plane before being summoned again. If the creature is forced back to the astral plane by being slain an additional 24 hours of rest is needed."
19,"Miraculous Mug of Mirth - This flagon is constantly full of mead, but only pours/spills out when applied to pursed lips. When drunk from, the creature receives a warm happiness in its heart and 1 HP. This benefit can only be applied once per individual creature between long rests."
20,"Bow of Redemption - A longbow that allows the user to deliver their Divine Smite as a ranged attack. Once per day, when attacking a fiend or undead creature with the Bow of Redemption, the paladin may use their Divine Smite without expending a spell slot."
21,"Swiftstream's diminutive courtroom (legendary): Camelia Swiftstream enjoyed a fulfilling and lucrative career as a pixie lawyer, until she was one day cursed by a vengeful opposed claimant to sit in judgement of any and all cases, forever, as a travelling justice. She took the opportunity though, and built a tiny but complete court in a travelling home (the size of a normal suitcase), and now lends her services to adventurer paladins who find themselves needing expert opinions on matters of right and wrong: after all, a paladin is expected to uphold the law, not understand it. (As a full action, anyone allied to the holder of Swiftstream's Diminutive Courtroom may ask her for a legal opinion, the outcome of which they can then take as being aligned with Law. She takes 1d4 turns to prepare the opinion (pixies work fast), and on a 3+ flip a coin to determine if she needs to take opposed evidence. If she does, lawful opposed characters must call a truce to have their dispute settled with words rather than fists, or pass a DC15 WIS save to find a lawful reason the court is not in jurisdiction. The DM can make up Camelia's judgement as they see fit. Out of combat, she can be invoked for similar debate and opinion and be treated as any other NPC in a position of moral and legal authority, except she lives in a house carried by the paladin and may be slightly biased)"
22,"Contact Lenses of Divine Fury (requires attunement): These lenses glow with a golden radiant light, even when not worn. While attuned and wearing the lenses, a creature gains darkvision (60 feet). In addition, the bearer may use its action to activate the lenses' full power. The bearer picks one creature that it can see within 60 feet. The lenses' golden glow narrows and blasts in a pinpoint line towards the target's face. A creature can avert its eyes, similarly to avoiding a basilisk's gaze attack. If the target has not averted its eyes and can see the bearer, it must immediately make a Wisdom save. On a failure, it takes 1d8 radiant damage and becomes frightened of you for 1 minute. On a success, it takes half as much damage and isn't frightened. If the target is a fiend or undead, the damage increases by 1d8."
23,"The Thrown Gauntlet - This white-and-silver glove has 6 charges. The wielder can expend a charge and cast compelled duel (DC 15). Alternatively, the wielder can make a melee attack with the glove. On a hit, the attack does 1+Str damage, and the wielder can expend five charges. The targeted creature must make a DC 18 Cha save or be at disadvantage on all saves, ability checks, and attacks besides melee attacks against the wielder of the glove. The effect lasts until either the wielder or the target are incapacitated or knocked unconscious, or until the wielder makes an attack against another creature. The Gauntlet recovers 1d6+1 charges every dawn; the Gauntlet also recovers all charges if the wielder singlehandedly defeats the creature targeted by the 5-charge ability."
24,A Dispensation for the Greater Good: A black scroll with an intact black wax seal containing a special dispensation signed by the Supreme Pontiff (and Co-Signed by a servitor of the God that you worship who will shield your action from your deity's scrutiny) that permits you one extraordinary evil act for the greater good of the Church.
25,"Holy Censer of Concealment: Upon activation with a command word, the censer ignites, clouding the wielder with smoke in a 5 ft radius for 2 rounds. During that duration, the wielder gains concealment and +2 profane or holy bonus on spells and attack rolls. The censer can also be used a melee weapon and shares the stats of a +2 Flail. Adjust stats according to your game."
26,"The Eye of St. Ballard: A disembodied eye that is magically preserved. The eye will magically replace another creature's eye when held to an eye of a willing creature. The eye grants the ability to see the alignment of any creature that is visible. Additionally, when looking through the eye a creature gains +2 on Perception checks and has Darkvision (120 ft). Removing the eye can be done at will."
27,"The White Stone of Calimdor: A polished stone of white granite covered in Elvish runes, it is a small, 1' thick disc that emits a faint opalescent glow. The stone can instantly sharpen any sharpenable simple or martial weapon, and upon doing so grants that weapon a +2 to hit and damage rolls plus the following effect. (3/day)"
28,"Calimdor's Honing Spark: At will, the wielder of this weapon can choose to discharge its magical effects, allowing it to perform a melee attack from up to 50 feet. The attack is treated as a melee basic and gains 1d6 Radiant damage. Upon using this attack, the weapon loses the magical properties given to it by the White Stone."
29,"Mithril Mirror: A 1 foot diameter disc of mithril with small silvery runes inlaid around it's border. A creature can use the mirror to capture up to 12 hours of daylight (1/2 as effective for moonlight, 1/12 as effective for firelight). The light can be released by speaking its power word. When the light is released, the user can choose how many hours worth of light they wish to release. Releasing the light blinds all creatures that can see the Mithril Mirror, reveals any invisible creatures or objects caught in the effect, and deals (1d12 x [# of light hours released] + 10) radiant damage. (Blind lasts for a number of turns equal to hours of light released, WIS save 15)"
30,"Recourse - A willow quarterstaff with silver ends. This +1 staff grants double proficiency in Insight and Persuasion when attuned. When the command phrase ('Nothing More To Say') is spoken, the Staff reveals its other nature- the command phrase opens the brandistock's grooves and lets out its three long blades. The brandistock is a +2 weapon, doing 1d8 piercing damage and an extra 1d10 radiant on a critical hit."
31,"Lord’s Light- a silver lantern with four lion heads whose mouths let out the light. The lantern emits a bright light for 30 ft and dim light for an additional 20 ft. The light can even pierce magical darkness and can only be extinguished by the wish spell. 3 times a day, as an action, you can use the lantern to cast magic missile with 4 darts."
32,"Redhead's Favor - This beautiful white handkerchief has been interwoven with a golden chain to create a makeshift necklace. It was originally created by Lady Bridgette Nallshaw for her betrothed husband, the paladin Gathross Valle. It is said that the love and promise with which she endowed the favor saved Gathross from certain death. Once per long rest, the wearer of the necklace can have a critical hit deal no damage, and instead heal the wearer for the amount of damage that it would otherwise deal."
33,"Weeping Flower of Mercy: An artificial flower typically worn on the lapel of an outer garment that is secretly attached to a pouch of holy water. As a swift action, the wearer of the flower can squirt the fluid at a distance of 5 ft as long as one hand is free."
34,"Ring of Discernment: Judgment requires Wisdom. Twice per day, the wearer can 'take 20' on a sense motive check."
35,"Torc of Faithful Radiance: The Torc of Faithful Radiance emits a visible aura to worshippers of the paladin's deity, even if other spells or conditions suppress the paladin's aura. In addition, once per day, the Torc permits the wearer to cast detect the faithful and compassionate ally."
36,"The Smock of Sweet Judith: Can be worn under plate armor. Long ago, a small girl was kidnapped by Kobolds and forced into slavery in their cave kitchen. Little Judith worked tirelessly for years until one day she found just the right type of mushroom and added it to their stew. With her captors dead Judith returned to her town only to face ostratization and condemnation by her community because she had changed and people feared her. They thought she should be dead and did not understand why she was still alive after being taken by monsters. Judith lived in the nearby mountains as a hermit and herbalist for the rest of her life, dedicating her energy to helping those who sought her out with her herbal knowledge and uncanny ability to find lost children. When she died a Lammasu who had taken note of her dedication to those who suffered and were lost channeled her soul into the leather smock she wore for 50 years, worn thin and supple from use. This smock grants the user cure serious wounds just by speaking 'Sweet Judith', cure critical wounds once per four hours by speaking 'Kind Judith', and holy word once per day by saying 'I am lost, please find me.'"
37,Mallet of Judgement and Law - All individuals within 60 feet of the mallet are under a permanent Zone of Truth spell with a save DC of 22. Also usable as a +2 warhammer and a spell focus.
38,"Blessed Silver Powder of Blasting - One toss of this powder (as an action, range 60 feet, affects a 15 by 15 cube centered on a point within range) deals 4d6 radiant damage to fiends and undead within range. May also sanctify water."
39,"The Myarsia Monks Staff - The Myarsian Monks are pious warrior priests that wield ornate steel staffs. Their remote monestary is located in the middle of a cliff. Each staff is unique and carved with the monks personal symbol. A stolen staff is pursued with much vengeance and to have one in your armory is sign of great wealth or power. If a command word is spoken, a blast of blueish energy comes out of the tip dealing 3d8 force damage in a 20 ft. cone. Those caught in the blast must make a DC 14 Strength save or be pushed back 10 ft. Recharge on a short or long rest."
40,"The Hammer of Retribution- This large, ornate maul is topped by a golden top. As a reaction, the wielder can choose to take the damage dealt to another target within 30 ft. Each point of damage thus taken is added to a pool. Upon a successful hit, the Hammer can expend the pool, dealing normal damage as well as radiant damage equal to 2d10+ the amount of the pool. This resets the pool to 0."
41,"Blindside Flank- A black-and-red set of greaves. On the left leg is etched the symbol of a dragon; on the right, the mask of a tribal warrior. When attuned to these, the wearer has advantage on dexterity saving throws and can ignore difficult terrain for (Str Modifier x 5, minimum 5) feet each movement. When attuned to both the Blindside and Openside Flanks, the wearer gains the following benefits- The wearer is immune to sneak attack damage. Any attacks with finesse weapons are at disadvantage. Once per short rest, the wearer can make an overrun attack as a bonus action on a target no more than one size larger within 10 ft. On a successful attack, the target is knocked prone and takes 1d6+Str damage."
42,"Openside Flank- This set of bracers appear to be black-and-red forearm wraps; closer inspection reveals that the wraps are made of a mix of cloth and superfine chainmail. When attuned to these, the wearer is resistant to sneak attack damage. In addition, once per long rest, the wearer can impose disadvantage on an attack roll within 30 feet. When attuned to both the Blindside and Openside Flanks, the wearer gains the following benefits- The wearer is immune to sneak attack damage. Any attacks with finesse weapons are at disadvantage. Once per short rest, the wearer can make an overrun attack as a bonus action on a target no more than one size larger within 10 ft. On a successful attack, the target is knocked prone and takes 1d6+Str damage."
43,"Truth - A +1 longsword that glows a bright blue when someone tells a lie within 30 feet of it. The liar isn't forced to tell the truth, but wielder of the sword now knows they were just lied to."
44,"Conviction- A rugged, battered metal shield with a faded picture of a dwarven maiden on it. On the inside, near the hasps, tarnished golden lettering reads 'My Faith is My Shield' in Celestial. The shield is magical, giving a +1 bonus to AC when wielded. Conviction also has three charges. As a reaction, the wielder can expend one of the charges and add a bonus equal to their Charisma Modifier to their AC and all saving throws for one round. All charges are restored at dawn."
45,"The Sight of Reason: A beautiful white scroll, carefully tied and sealed with a golden seal. As an action, a paladin can cast calm emotions while holding the scroll. Alternatively, the paladin can break the seal and unroll the scroll. If this is done, every creature within 500 feet must make a Charisma saving throw at disadvantage. If they fail the save, any creature's attitude toward the paladin changes to at least indifferent (if hostile or unfriendly). Using the scroll in this manner drains the magic from the scroll for the next 3d6+1 weeks."
46,"Builder's Judgement: This +2 Warhammer was created for the good followers of Erakto, God of the Forge and Innovation. It appears old and well-used, with a fire-blackened grip and a slightly dented head. The hammer has 3 charges. As an action, the wielder can point the hammer at a magic item and call upon the magic of The Builder to suppress the magic within the item. If the item is being wielded by a creature, the creature may make a charisma save. Upon a failure (or if the item is unattended), the magical properties of the item are suppressed for 1d6+1 rounds. This ability can also be used to remove cursed items."
47,"Sam's Jackal: A silver necklace with a jackal's head pendant. When the wearer knocks down a creature of medium or smaller size, a silvery silhouette of a jackal appears on top of the downed creature. In order to stand up, the creature must make a DC 13 strength save. The jackal disappears when the creature successfully makes the save or after 2 rounds."
48,"Prayer beads of the Righteous: After using these for prayer beads for daily prayers/during a long rest, the paladin may declare that a target that has been successfully smited (smitten?) is stunned for one round. The effect is wasted if the creature is immune to being stunned."
49,"Mantle of the Brave: Extends the range of all of your auras by ten feet. One per day/long rest, you may grant one ally within fifteen feet a re-roll on a fear save they have failed."
50,"Snuggwie Bwankie: This 5-foot square cloth is warm and soft, and never appears to get dirty. It can be attuned by a good-aligned creature. If a humanoid is wrapped in the blanket by someone attuned to it, the humanoid is subjected to the sleep spell (focused entirely on the subject in the blanket). If the creature wrapped in the blanket is put to sleep, it is impervious to damage while asleep, cannot be targeted by any spell, and can only be awakened by the blanket being unwrapped or by the end of a 6-hour long rest."
51,"Medallion of Heresy: A symbol worn by Oathbreaker paladins that represents the fact that they betrayed their oath. No matter what it originally stood for this medalion is now a symbol for their new path and makes a oathbreaker instantly recognizable as a oathbreaker. If a oathbreaker paladin wears it, their dreadful aspect channel divinty now makes a creature fall prone alongside frightening them and gives it advantage against celestials. If a paladin with a different oath has it. They can, one time only, destroy the medalion to instantly nullify any malicious illusion's and echantments affecting them of level 6 and lower by reafirming their dedication to the values they have sworn to serve."
52,Malleus Maleficarum: The first page of this small book claims to teach the reader how to deal with witches and demonic cults. The second simply says 'Kill Them' in Celestial. Upon uttering those words as a bonus action the book transforms into a burning +2 returning light hammer. The flames emit dim light out to 20 feet but are harmless. The hammer may be transformed back into book form with another bonus action.
53,"Candle of Vigilance: After lighting this candle using an action, its flame will not go out for any reason other than the approach of a shapeshifter, fiend, or undead within 60 ft of it. When it goes out, whoever lit the flame immediately and telepathically becomes aware of it, regardless of distance. After going out, the magic of the candle is consumed and it can no longer be used in this manner."
54,"The Bleeding Lance: The wielder of this +1 lance may choose to automatically deliver a dosage of holy water to an enemy when they hit that enemy with an attack using the lance. The holy water is stored in a reservoir inside, which can hold up to 5 flasks of liquid. Theoretically this reservoir could hold other liquids, but you're a paladin so you wouldn't do that, right?"
55,"Boots of Blinding Speed: These brightly polished steel boots reflect light like a mirror. At will, the attuned user may choose to activate the boots' magic ability, causing them to leave blindingly bright footsteps wherever the user moves during the duration of their turn. These prints flare up into a magical wall of radiant force that lasts for the next minute. The wall is 20 ft high and 1 ft thick. The first time a creature enters the space occupied by the wall or ends its turn there, it must make a Con save or take 5d8 radiant damage and be blinded for one minute, taking half damage and not being blinded on a success. Undead, fiends, and creatures with sunlight sensitivity have disadvantage on this saving throw. This ability can not be used again until the attuned owner finishes a long rest."
56,The Monocle of Magnanimous Judgement: A monocle that allows its user to cast Detect Evil and Good once per day as well as providing cryptic advice on if they could atone.
57,Ledger of Loyalty: A small leather bound book. If anyone makes a promise to the Paladin the Paladin can write the characters name in the book. If the character breaks the promise they name is magically crossed out and the Paladin is aware.
58,"Glove of the Godsworn: The glove has 4 charges and regains all charges at dawn. Using a charge, the paladin can cast any cleric cantrip by snapping their finger using the glove."
59,"The Justiciar's Noose: this beautifully wrought torc grants the wearer the ability to cast 'Zone of Truth' as a free action at will. If the wearer knowingly lies, the torc starts to constrict, strangling the wearer for 1d6 cumulative per round unless removed with a DC 15 strength check."
60,"Breath of Conviction: A small glass vial that appears empty. As a bonus action, a paladin can open the vial and inhale the contents. The paladin is filled with a renewed conviction of his or her oath, and has advantage on all rolls directly fulfilling that oath for the next minute."
61,St Arno's Flame - Uncommon - A ring of red and orange beads to be worn around the wrist as a bracelet. A paladin attuned to this item can not use Lay on Hands to restore hit points but can instead take half as many hit points away from a creature.
62,Sword of All Fear Uncommon - Greatsword - A creature attuned to this weapon has advantage on concentration checks for all spells that contain the word 'Smite'.
63,Harlan's Bridle - Very Rare - allows the attuned paladin to cast Find Greater Steed without expending a spell slot once per day. Summons a Celestial Lion wreathed in flame.
64,"Horn of Heavenly Reinforcements Legendary - allows the attuned paladin to cast Find Greater Steed once for each creature within 30 feet summoning a fleet of creatures. After being used, the horn is inert and unusable for a hundred years."
65,"Mantle of the Mountain - Very Rare - when a creature in the attuned paladin's aura takes damage, that damage is reduced by an amount equal to half the paladins level."
66,Hero's Helm - Uncommon - a paladin wearing this circlet knows the direction and distance to the most imperiled person within 500 ft.
67,"Halo of Pure Emotion - Wondrous item, very rare (requires attunement by a paladin of good alignment) - When placed on the head, this silver halo hovers just above the wearer's head. The halo provides a +2 bonus on Wisdom and Charisma saving throws, as well as advantage on saving throws against being charmed or frightened. Once per day, the wearer may cast calm emotions from the halo."
68,"Feather of Respite - Dropping the feather, even in utterly still air, will cause it to float in the direction of the nearest spot where the party can get a full night's rest. The spot will be the best available protection from the elements and free from malign supernatural influences in the vicinity, but might still be interrupted by natural creatures operating on their volition. The feather can be used multiple times but requires time to restore: if used on subsequent days, the range of the feather halves. Some paladins use it to confirm whether they are surrounded by evil or to discern the direction where they might be most needed by willingly choosing to ignore the feather's suggestion."
69,"Soulplate Armor (Chainmail, Splint, or Plate Armor) - Rather than a strength requirement, this lightweight set of armor has charisma based requirements of equal level."
70,"Hammer of the Hoardbreaker - Whenever you land a divine smite using this warhammer, all large or smaller creatures in a 10 foot cone originating you and in the direction of the attack must make a strength saving throw equal to your spell save DC or be pushed backwards 5ft and knocked prone."
71,"Chaotic Chatelaine: This decorative belt hook is all about making sure things never stay the same curtesy of the Traveler. By wearing this belt hook, the wearer (and being a follower of the Traveler) let’s the wear switch one piece of clothing with a target of their choice. This is not limited by if the target is even wearing clothes or the size of the garment the only piece of clothing you may not change is the actual Chatelaine itself. You may use the ability of the Chaotic Chatelaine 2 per day."
72,"Belt of Chastity: a chastity belt that grants the wearer clear mind in midst of trying times. Pick-up lines and sexual engagement don't work on those wearing a Belt of Chastity. Additionally, when one wears the belt, they have the ability to a cantrip, Aura of Chastity, that causes a person of their choosing to not engage in romance or sexual activity. Especially useful for keeping the party on track after grabbing a drink at the tavern. The ultimate platonic kink."
73,"Wolfsong: Wolfsong is an enchanted silver and mahogany flute that inspires ferocity and courage in battle in those who hear it’s chilling song. Those who hear it get +1 to AC and one point of inspiration. If the user does a bad job in playing it, the wolf carving on Wolfsong’s front will bite them and the user will lose one hit point."
74,"Gauntlet of the Bane Giver: A silver gauntlet with a red gem in the center. It allows the paladin to use Lay on Hands, cure ally or self of poison, paralysis, stunned or blindness effects and can store them in the item. The user can use an action to touch a creature and give the stored negative effect to it, which the creature must succeed a Constitution saving throw against the spell save DC of the user."
75,"Truthbrush: A potent dental instrument made from the whittled bone of a legendary Prophet and the hair of his Pegasus. While unparalleled in the upkeep of good oral hygiene, the truthbrush's true power is in the supernatural ability of the wielder to detect lies. The wielder has +5 to checks against attempts of deception. Additionally, their gleaming smile gives them +1 to Charisma rolls targeting friendly characters."
76,"Banner of Swiftness: A banner depicting a horse, grants allies within 40 feet an extra 5 feet of movement speed and +1 Initiative."
77,Shoulder Pauldrons of Responsibility: Steel shoulder replacements that depict lion heads. Gives Advantage on persuasion checks to convince NPC's to allow the party to help them.
78,"Necklace of Purity: This necklace glows faintly at all times unless the user is non-good alignment, is diseased, is cursed, or has stolen items on them."
79,"Boots of Grovel and Gravel: Blessed by the God of Justice, when these boots are not directly observed they clean themselves. These boots provide total immunity to nonmagical bites and claw attacks made at the wearers feet."
80,"Spear of Jannus Smile, The Knight: Can only be attuned by a lawful character This +2 spear has two long strands of ribbon a the tip. Once per turn, when making an attack with this weapon, on a miss, the user can decide to re-roll the attack and must choose another target within 5 feet of the initial target."
81,"The Coinpurse of Western Ideals: Must be equipped by a Lawful Character. This small bag of holding is actually a mimic, can only hold coins, and the mimic speaks with the gruff voice of a staunch city guard. The Coinpurse cannot be pickpocketed, and has a chance to hurt any character attempting to steal from it."
82,Moustache of Lightheartedness: Can only be equipped by Lawful female characters. An adhesive moustache made by the god of trickery after losing a contest of courting to the god of justice. This item is blessed and provides advantage on diplomacy checks to the wearer.
83,"Shield of Sight: Can only be equipped by Lawful Good Characters. The wielder can close their eyes and see telepathically through the shield as long as they hold it. They are immune to sight based petrification, fear, and charms as long as they are seeing their target through the shield's telepathy."
84,Hammer of Community: This Hammer is blessed by the god of civilization to never bend nails when used as a tool.
85,"Cape of the Overgrowth: This cape depicts tree roots growing over a city wall. This cape is blessed by the god of nature. Once per day, the wearer can cast the spell plant growth as a ritual. The Cape has text written in Druidic which reads 'Life beyond borders'."
86,"Lantern of True Intentions: This lantern, when lit, radiates light like a normal lantern. However, its light responds to malicious intent. If there is a creature within the 30 foot radius that intends harm toward the bearer of the lantern, its light will change to a blue hue. If the creature is also a fiend, then its light will instead change to a red hue."
87,"Casting Censor (requires attunement): This constantly burning silver censor smells of your god's most prolific plant, filling the air with empowering spirit as it does so. While attuned as a Paladin, you gain 2 cantrips from the Cleric spell list; additionally, you have the option of using your Charisma or Wisdom as spell-casting modifiers. This item (and any spell cast using it) has no effect on Oathbreaker Paladins."
88,"Smoldering Censor (requires attunement): This charred, cast-iron censor billows soot, filling the air with a choking smoke. While attuned as an Oathbreaker Paladin, you gain 2 cantrips from the Warlock spell list; additionally, you gain the option of using your Charisma or Wisdom as spell-casting modifiers. This item (and any spell cast using it) has no effect on standard Paladins."
89,Belt of Noble Visage: This blessed belt gives the wearer the ability to cast disguise self as long as the disguise is of nobles clothing.
90,"The Salt Trident: This +1 white trident is blessed by the goddess of the sea, and grants the wielder the ability to the create a small pool of salt water upon planting it into the ground. The water created by this action is holy water The Wielder rolls a 1d100. On a roll of 90 or lower. nothing happens. 91-95 A small fish spawns in the water. 96-100 A Hostile water mephit spawns."
91,"Horn of faith: one use per Long Rest. When blown by a Paladin or Cleric of level 10 or higher, it seems to make no noise. A single Spirit Guardian, in the form of a paladin of the user's faith, appears near the player. It will engage the strongest enemy in the player's vicinity, attacking once when summoned and then once per round, just before the summoner in initiative. An attacked creature takes 3d8 radiant damage on a failed Wisdom saving throw, and cannot escape the guardian except through teleporting away. The guardian disappears after the targeted enemy is defeated, the enemy escapes, the guardian is dealt any magical damage, or the summoner is knocked unconscious. In the latter case, the guardian vanishes on its turn and the player regains 2d8 hit points. If blown by an evil creature, the horn shatters, dealing 1d4 damage to the user."
92,"Hell's Anchor (Legendary Artifact): A brand new looking ship anchor with glimmering seaweed wrapped around it. The anchor has 10ft. Of chain still attached to it. Hell's Anchor was ripped from the sunken ship of a long forgotten paladin, but the paladin's rage against the evil in the world followed the anchor back up to the shore. When the anchor is within 30ft. of a fiend, demon, or undead it begins to hum softly and the holder is made aware of all fiends, demons, or undead in the radius. Three times a day the holder may speak the command word 'Chain' and Hell's Anchor will extend and restrain any fiend, demon, or undead of the player's choice (if the enemy fails a DC 20 strength check). The enemy can make a DC 20 strength check on his turn to break out of the chains, but is otherwise physically restrained. (Restrained enemy can still speak) Enemy takes 1d6 damage every turn it is restrained. Hell's Anchor can also be used as a +2 1d8 weapon with the two-handed and reach properties."
93,"Shield of Lord Merica' Legendary artifact (requires attunement): This large shield is in the shape of a circle with a giant symbol of (insert chosen god here) in the center. On your turn you may throw the shield making a range attack up to 30 feet away. On hit the shield will do (2d6 + str mod) bludgeoning damage. The shield will then 'bounce' off the target and find another hostile target up to 20 feet away and make another ranged attack, (1d6 + str mod) bludgeoning damage. Hit or miss the shield will then redirect itself back to the owner."
94,Angle's cuiress - a gorgeous gleaming set of breastplate armour made of silver and gold. Golden featured wings are etched into the back. Gives advantage on diplomacy checks with good aligned outsiders and allows the user to cast the 'Divine intervention' ability like a cleric does once a week.
95,"Jury's Conviction; it is a locket which has magical properties, as long as you put in a piece of paper which on it has oaths, morals and other such things. Then while out of combat you gain advantage while defending the oaths which you have written in any situation, be it social (persuasion, intimidation) or physical (chase and rescue encounters). So for example; if on the oath it said 'defend the masses' or 'protect the poor' you will gain advantage on rolls which would be like; convince the mayor to offer help to the masses in their time of need, or go to a farm and help out on the fields to get food for the poor."
96,"Pendant of Faith's Power Shared: Pendant in shape of the Paladin's Holy Symbol. When worn by a Paladin and one or more of their allies within 20', the allies weapons attune to the Paladin's Smite power. When the Paladin uses Smite, the allies' weapon cause smite damage equal to that of the Paladin. If the ally is also a follower of the paladin's God(dess), then both the Paladin's Smite Damage and the ally's is doubled. (requires attunement by all.) Normally, at least a pair is found."
97,Mirror of Detect Alignment - Allows the paladin to get a better sense of their own alignment to judge themselves. Such introspection has been known to drive some mad.
98,"Gloves of Reach (Requires attunement): A pair of gloves made of silver thread. While attuned and wearing these gloves, the range of Lay of Hands increases to match that of your auras. Upon activating lay of hands, a gaseous silver cloud shaped like your hand extends from your palm to the target."
99,"Saviors Pendant (Requires attunement): A pendant made of three silver loops. Inside each loop is a small magically glowing sapphire. It has 3 charges. You may expend a charge to use Lay of Hands as a bonus action. Upon expending a charge, one of the gems loses its glow. It regains all expended charges at the end of a long rest."
100,"Shield of Bolstering: Shield (any). While wearing this shield, the first time you use lay of hands between each short or long rest, the target gains an additional 5 temporary HP."

d100,Entry

1,Snuffed The Magic Dragon' - A song about slaying a dragon that has terrorized the countryside. This song has a part two called 'Stuffing The Magic Dragon' in which the party has the dragon stuffed and brought to their castle.
2,The Deep One's Sea Shanty' - To anyone who can’t speak Aquan this sound sounds like an upbeat sea shanty sung in another language. To those who do speak Aquan it tells the story of 'The One who causes the waves' and how he fought the gods themselves to reclaim the sea as his own.
3,"Lycan Virgin' - Famous wenching song punctuated by wolf howls. Werewolves struggle to resist joining in during these parts, as does anyone else who has had a few..."
4,"Crossbow' - A song about a Ranger who rides into town to collect a bounty, alive or dead, against the Barbarian Reckless Redd. 'No one dared to ask his business, no one dared to make a slip, 'cus the Ranger there among them had a crossbow at his hip.'"
5,The Wizard and the Wren' - A children's song about a wizard who built a wooden town taller than any in the land that was undone by a wren who needed twigs to build its nest.
6,The Crown on the Head and the Crown on the Heart' - An epic poem describing a king who was usurped and his journey of growth on his return to the throne.
7,Ashkeeper' - A slow and somber dwarven chant about the history of one of their oldest and deepest fortresses.
8,"Our Son Arsen's Arsine Arson and Parson Carson's Incarceration Assertion' - This bar song is known for being a dangerous tongue twister, and requires a DC 20 perform or linguistics check to sing without a serious mouth injury. Failing the check results in being unable to sing or speak for 1d6 hours."
9,My Shortest Love' - a song about the love between an elf and a halfling (hence “shortest”).
10,The Seven Dwarves' - song about how seven dwarves help to rescue a human maiden poisoned by a female wizard.
11,"Blasphemy Song' - a rhyming song where every verse is an insult to a god. It is usual sung at a speedy pace. Worshipers say any bard who sings the song will face divine retribution, but for most bards, this wasn’t their last song."
12,"The Seven Screw-ups That Saved the World' - A song about an adventuring party in which the members kept dying but still managed to stop the apocalypse. Each verse is how they helped the party, and how they died is in the chorus: 'There were Seven Screw-ups in the party in all, One sang with the banshee in the hall and then there were Six Screw-ups in the party in all' Popularly altered to sing the praises of other unfortunate adventuring groups."
13,Rocking Chair' - A calm ballad about an old elven lady remembering the times when she was young and fierce.
14,Cold Blows the Wind' - The love ballad of a budding necromancer and the lover she lost to the sea.
15,"Letters in the Sky' - A tragic tale about a prince exiled to the sun and a princess exiled to the moon, and how they can only express their love for each other by arranging the stars into messages. Usually, it ends with the performer gazing skyward on the final chorus."
16,"Pahoot' - A children's song (best played on the flute or piccolo) that parents roll their eyes at while their children giggle. It features verses about the exploits of Pahoot, the flatulent goblin, who somehow always gets the last laugh whenever he's ostracized for his odor."
17,"Where You’ve Been' - A song about a ranger who searches for his lost love, using his tracking skills, but he’s delayed by his memories of the locations he visits. At the end of the song, he finds his love waiting for him."
18,Behind Blue Scales' - song by a blue dragonborn who wants to break free from chromatic influence.
19,What's In A Bottle Of Elfish Wine' - A popular song among taverns owners and their patrons. This fast paced song is widely known and adapted by everyone who sings it.
20,The Night Groomer' - a tragic story about a night time barber who was killed by a customer that transformed into a werewolf.
21,"The Lonely Golem' - A song about a statue coming to life and starting a quest to find friends, forgetting that its job was to protect an ancient weapon built to destroy nations."
22,"The Shortening of Meradian Finn' - A Dwarven drinking song with thirty-eight official verses (and countless unofficial ones), the song recounts the punishment meted out against an Elven noble who stole from a Dwarven treasury. The chorus ends with a rousing slamming of glasses and a 'in the end, he never did again!' It is considered poor taste by many elves, which helps account in part for its popularity."
23,The Bawdy Body of Biddy Badee' - A raucous account of an old woman accidentally restored to youth and beauty. The song makes liberal use of alliteration and plays on words: 'her newly charmed charms were enchanting enchantment; passing by barracks led to guardsman advancement...'
24,"The Cruel Changeling' - A mournful ballad of a wandering bard falling for a woman at a fair, only to discover that she is wearing another's face."
25,And All for a Turnip' - A song best sung as a round. It tells the story of a hungry halfling and his incredible exploits finding a snack.
26,"I Eldalië Nairii (sometimes translated as The People Mourn)' - An Elven Dirge describing the loss of Cyrindes Flestivel, a beautiful and kind mage, to a spreading plague, along with many of her people. A melancholy ode to loss, some have taken it as a representation of the Elves' sense of mourning for the loss of their brighter world."
27,"I Eldalië Snuiiiiii (The last word is used to sound like snoring or deep breathing)' - A parody of the Elven Dirge 'I Eldalië Nairii', the song is of unknown source; it tells of an Elven bard singing the dirge, while the listeners fall asleep from boredom. A sure way to insult the singer of such a dirge, it is best sung with as much false pomposity as possible."
28,"But the Gnome Was Never Seen' - A children's song, used to remind Gnomish youths about the importance of caution and care."
29,"Adam the Easygoing' - A relaxed song telling the tale of the titular Adam, a large, pudgy human paladin with an odd knack for befriending those he defeated in combat."
30,"I Write the Spells' - A catchy if somewhat easily grating little song of unknown origin. If sung, it makes certain wizards go absolutely berserk."
31,"Nyarna Nwalcamun' - The Saga of the Hero Grefedd and his journey to destroy the sentient cursed sword Nwalcamun. Traditionally, the climactic final battle scene is punctuated by the beat of a hammer on an anvil, representing Grefedd's smashing of Nwalcamun while under attack by a drow army."
32,"The Green Eyes of Mallistari' - The wooing song of a human woodsman for a half-elven maiden 'met in a shady glade.' The song is notable for a memorable bridge, often used when teaching the lute."
33,"Ga-Grosh For-Thaash' - A song adapted from an Orcish marching anthem, useful for learning the rudiments of Orcish."
34,"The Oysters of Miss Marchelle' - A sea shanty, recounting the joys of stopping in port at an establishment called 'Harbor Belle.' The song declares that 'no sailor can resist the delight of the oysters of Miss Marchelle.' The shanty, unlike many such songs, is not clearly innuendo, although it certainly may be (and many sailors sing it as such)."
35,"Arnash Quadmatter' - A song mocking the quintessential absent-minded wizard, referring to the foibles caused by having 'his nose in a book, a book, a book...'"
36,"The Missing Child' - A mournful Elven song about a mother looking for her lost child, eventually going mad with grief and drowning herself, only to rise again as a banshee."
37,Grandma Got Eaten By An Owlbear' - A Popular song in winter months reminding people that they shouldent allow their elderly ex adventuring grandmother to attempt to wrestle monstrosities.
38,"You Can Just Call Me The Gnome' - A fast-paced, silly song telling the increasing exploits of Hamish McTamish, a fictional gnome adventurer. Each time the chorus is sung, Hamish's name is lengthened with more titles (the last chorus includes as many silly titles as the singer can think of and can sing in a single breath) followed by 'but you can just call me the Gnome!' Although believed to be human in origin, gnomes love the song, and an informal competition has sprung up as to the longest final chorus. The current record belongs to Sprigvill Gaudynack, who (via both her own talent and magical augmentation) kept the last chorus going for three and a half minutes."
39,"Callaud's Pre-funeral Dance' - A sprightly instrumental air for country dances. If played with a performance check DC 18 or higher, it functions like 'Otto's Irresistible Dance' for anyone not in combat or threatened (i.e. it will make listening townsfolk break out into dance, but not if you are in the midst of robbing their homes)."
40,"Long, Gone Galangal' - A love story told through Gamelan music about an adventurous Chef seeking a rare root in the forest. Instead of finding it, they find the love of their life. The song is quite long, requires a large number of musicians to play properly, and has a happy ending."
41,"Untranslateable Orcish Proverb' - A morality tale operatically told through Carved Masks, Huge Percussion Instruments (Taiko style Drumming), Slapstick Pantomime, and Throat Singing techniques. A classic of High Orcish culture, now practically lost to time and the collapse of High-Orcish society. The choregraphy is quite energetic."
42,"Great-Grandmother Will Enjoy Eating Your Flesh An Orchestral Eladrin Morality Tale from the Far Fey Realms' - A bold hero cheats and fails to respect the ancestral Mother-spirit. The mother spirit holds the hero to his deal and devours him for his crimes. The tale is told non-verbally, through colorful illusion and intepretive dance."
43,"My Lord, Come-a-Leaping' - A bawdy Halfling tale about a Randy Prince who is turned into Frog when he comes on too strong to a powerful and beautiful Halfling Sorceress, and discovers he likes being a Frog more than a Ruler."
44,"The Farmer's Corn' - A bawdy tale about a comely farmer's daughter who mishears something someone said, and spreads gossip around the village."
45,"The Three Spinners' - A children's Tale retold through a tongue twisting call and response song. It is about three unmarried magical Farm-women who challenge that they can out-spin (thread) better than anyone. They challenge a devil, who curses one with a swollen foot, one with an infected finger, and one with an infected lip. The woman with the infected lip's line is supposed to be sung while holding one's tongue. In the end, the women win, the devil is defeated, and each one wins more gold than they know what to do with."
46,The Town with No Name' - 'I came across a pokey town. Not much going on and curtains all down. I came across a smokey tavern. Not much going on in that pokey town.' A slow sad song about a old woman that lost her way and found a town not on any maps they brought and only too late discovered it to be a ghost town. (Actual ghost town not just one that was abandoned).
47,"Beware A Human Bard' - A pseudo-cautionary song about the lascivious characteristics of human bards; the song begins with an Elvish mother warning her daughter, and proceeds through all the more common races into more and more ridiculous warnings ('Mama Golem warns that he'll say he likes your rocks, but what he's really thinking of...')"
48,"The Fall of the Sun' - A mournful Aarakocra ballad, said to have been written by the first to travel from the Elemental Plane of Air and see a sunset."
49,The Cheese Song' - 'Cheese Cheese Cheese Cheese Cheese Cheese Cheese Cheese Cheese Cheese' A song used by Kenku bards who create melodies out of the different voices and accents they have heard the word in the songs they sing.
50,"Glida's Wedding' - A traditional halfling travel song, describing the setup for a halfling wedding, 'held in the shadow of the wagons on a Summer Sunday.'"
51,"The Flute & Lute' - A 'dueling instruments' style song featuring the eponymous instruments. While some bards have added words to the lute portion, it is usually simply instrumental."
52,"Bear Bride' - A song about a human maid, enchanted by a fair traveler into leaving her home, who meets a sad end when she discovers the traveler is a dangerous druid. Likely originating in legends warning of associating with strangers."
53,Rocks Fall' - A cautionary song about travelers who did not heed the warnings of the gods and met a sudden and tragic end in an avalanche.
54,"Green Fields, Grey Fields (The Old Woman and Young Girl)' - A song about an old woman walking with her great-granddaughter. The song is both nostalgic and melancholy."
55,"The Solemn Judge' - A song about an irascible old magistrate, his beautiful daughter, and the blacksmith's son who falls for her. The last verse tells of the judge marrying the happy couple."
56,"Fleshy Pinklings' - An Orcish Festival song, championing the power of the Orcish races and declaring their superiority over the rest of the world, and their destiny as conquerors."
57,"Cloth in the Street' - A protest song, originally written in Malthcumband, calling for weavers to rise up against an unjust leader. Banned in many evil-aligned areas, the song calls for the people to rise up and take back the city. Ironically, one of the governments to ban the song is the tyrannical Communal Autocracy of Malthcumband, formed by many of the same weavers the song was first written for."
58,The Colors Of Death' - A colorful tale of how an adventuring party was brutally murdered by all the chromatic dragons at once.
59,"Well Well Well' - A song relating how several people did mischief and subsequently fell into a hole in the ground. The chorus starts with: 'Well Well Well, look who fell here!'."
60,"To The Death' - A marching song about a young soldier who plans on dying bravely to defend their homeland, and asks their leader to write a letter home for them to their one true love. It was quite popular long ago, but is now considered cloying and outdated."
61,Ale for the Victorious' - A popular drinking song sung by soldiers while off-duty.
62,"To My Lover's Lover's Love' - A downer of a song, this tear-jerker is a letter dictated, postmortem, by a forlorn lover telling all the sordid and dirty deeds of their former lover, now in the arms of another."
63,"Sir Dalloway the Duelist' - A song from a hundred years ago, poking fun at nobles and fragile honor. It was once considered unlawful to sing it in polite company, but it is now a popular folk ballad that is quite catchy."
64,"Rhetting the Flax' - A work song about how many bales of flax a young and ambitious villager promises to grow, harvest, prepare, spin, weave, and sell, so they can have enough fabric and gold for a huge wedding, if only their lover would return their affection. The song is a thinly veiled sexual innuendo."
65,"The Horrible Haggis of Hampstead Heath' - A rhyming cumulative song about a mimic that swallows an farmer's old, rotten haggis, gains magical powers, and then goes on a rampage. It devours an entire town, where every occupant, their occupation, their children, and the name of their family pets are listed. At first no-one stops it because they are too self-centered. In the end, the town's guards and even the mayor are devoured. The song has a happy ending as the unlikely hero lets themselves get devoured and then slices open the mimic from the inside, releasing everybody safe and sound. The best bards are able to keep the crowd going for an entire hour, and then recite in reverse order the entire population of the village."
66,Ogre-Melon Crawl' - A catchy ditty which is a comedic precautionary tale about walking and not riding a horse if you have been drinking Ogre-Melon wine.
67,"Two Hundred and Seventeen Heartbeats' - a controversial Elven composition. The singer takes a breath, then measures their pulse in silence for the duration that the title implies, while the audience is meant to slowly embrace the many natural sounds taking place during that time as a song of their own. It has been hailed by some musicians as a deep, thoughtful reflection on natural sounds, but criticized by others as a bad joke."
68,"Dwavers Wumblerubs' - A halfling nonsense song, meant to sound like, but not actually be, Dwarvish. Sung with mock solemnity."
69,"Slashworthy' - A sea shanty about a cutlass that never went dull, until the captain of the ship used it to shave his back."
70,"The Old Dun Cow' - The dedicated patrons of a tavern take refuge in the cellar while the building burns down around them, and take advantage of the taverner's stores while waiting to be rescued."
71,"The Hollowed One' - A tale about a man who gave his mind, will, and voice to be able to house a disgraced god to protect his people. Any who hear it are inclined to feel a deep lament for this person."
72,"The Snarl' - A frightening song about gnoll attacks, with reference to the sounds they make beforehand. Sure to give a frisson to listeners."
73,Duplicitous Dannalor' - A song about a half-elf man who is having simultaneous affairs with an elven woman and a human woman.
74,"Dreaming of an Inn' - A ballad of an adventurer in the wilderness, missing civilization and bemoaning the uncouth surroundings and travelling companions."
75,"Gandavous Thunke' - Oh, Gandavous Thunke was a dangerous drunk with chaos instilled in his soul, And when faced with sellswords, or rampaging Orc Hordes, Or an angry cantankerous Troll, Old Gandy would growl and fix them with a scowl and unleash the magic inside, Calling forth lightning, or- equally frightening- A fireball, leaving them fried. Now, though it seems tragic, the use of the magic has had an effect on his hue; So if you're foolhardy and meet him at a party, you can call him Old Gandy the Blue."
76,"This Moment of Magic' - A love song about a wizard's apprentice falling for his classmate as they cooperate in the creation of a summoning circle. 'Though I open a gate to the Plane of Air, and float through unending skies, I would never find night that was dark as your hair, nor a view as blue as your eyes.'"
77,"Robin Redbreast' - A song about a bird hopping through the forest. Although unknown by many, including some of its singers, there is a second message contained in thieves' cant within the song, describing the guard patterns of the Royal Summer Palace of Keann."
78,The Future Journey' - A Dwarven song about the afterlife 'dug down below.'
79,Tenting on the Old Campground' - a ballad of a soldier honoring and remembering those they've lost and wishing for an end of the war they are fighting.
80,"My Hedgehog Son' - A catchy, nonsense, drinking song about a magical, talking hedgehog that gets adopted by a childless farmer, the hedgehog rides a rooster like a knight on a horse, and makes the farmer rich. The song is filled with tongue twisters. Bards occasionally challenge each other to invent and repeat new verses, each more difficult and hilarious than the last, while taking a drink after every flubbed line."
81,The Silken Meadow' - Who knew ancient Eladrin epic poetry turned thousand year old ballad could be so raunchy?
82,"Llolth's Lullaby' - An adventuring bard somewhere made it all the way down to the underdark, and heard one or two of the teaching songs sung by the Creche Matrons who give young Drow infants the education they need to survive the rigors of life; the song is in a deep dialect of undercommon that is almost never spoken anymore, but it is filled with all sorts of 'Learning Magic', mnemonics, and cultural references that makes it a sort of memetic hazard (you NEVER forget the words if sung by a powerful enough teacher), but the effect is less so when you don't understand the language. That adventurous bard made it back to the surface, but not understanding the dialect of the deep, transposed the lullaby into a few other chords and added an improvisational lick of their own. That was a thousand years ago, and people have been humming and playing the tune up here ever since then, 50 generations later."
83,"Health Potion #9' - A song about a long-suffering herbalist companion to a luckless knight and the scrapes the two of them get into. In the end, they end happily- the knight marries a guard captain who arrests him, while the herbalist falls for a local fortune teller."
84,Ghouls in the Graveyard' - A song about running through a graveyard seeking to avoid the attack of undead.
85,"A Red Ribbon' - A murder-ballad. A lover is given a red ribbon, the lover cheats while wearing the ribbon. The lover is strangled with said ribbon. The song is sung from the perspective of the lover wearing the red ribbon and ends abruptly, mid verse."
86,"She's Won the Crusade' - A song about the exploits of a halfling bard, celebrating her exploits in the Great Crusade of Nevis with increasingly impossible descriptions of her victories."
87,"Last breath' - A song about the recent death of a loved one, party member, and loss, the song goes through the 5 stages of grief as well."
88,"Hurry Up and Die' - A song about a necromancer seeking a zombie companion, but surrounded only by living creatures."
89,Run Through The Jungle' - A saga of adventurers who managed to successfully get through the Haunted Temple of Khymann'roe and obtain the Crystal of Nor'Vesh without ever entering combat- simply by running away.
90,"No Rest For The Wicked' - This song tells the tale of Caela of the Mammoth, a paladin of vengeance from a barbarian tribe, on her quest to hunt down the travelers who robbed and killed her father."
91,"The Stew' - a Farcical portrayal of an foolish adventurer getting news that their loved one has decided that they are probably dead and has moved on. The distraught adventurer falls in love with the attractive savage, promising they'd 'Jump in the Stew for You'. It has become a popular saying amongst foolish young lovers."
92,"There Is No Mountain' - A chant developed in the monastery of Gar-Yin. The chant is used to focus the speaker away from the material realm, and declares the non-existence of the mountain, valley, and river visible from the monastery's meditation area."
93,"The Scornful Beauty' - A human traveler falls for a Dwarven gemsmith's daughter, but she rebuffs his advances. The song calls on her to turn her head and consider his suit."
94,"Dihen-Nin (Forgive Me)' - A mournful plea by an Elven soldier to his fallen comrades, begging their forgiveness for his survival 'when your songs have been ended.'"
95,"Captain Hennion's Wife' - A decidedly ribald army song about the wife of a commanding officer; it is common to adapt a verse to be about the wife (or daughter) of a current army leader. Singing this song can be a good way to end up in the stocks; nevertheless, it is very popular in camp."
96,"And Another Tree Falls' - A mournful tale of a dryad, trying unsuccessfully to protect her grove from the incursion of a growing human city. This song is abnormally famous for starting bar fights, especially if there are urban and wild elements in the tavern."
97,Clotted Soil' - A recounting of the betrayal of King Bhoulthekk Bramfisted and his army by the Elven nation of Alv'dirae when the Dwarven army stood to defend Alv'dirae's borders from attacks by the Ghowldresh Empire. One of the often-quoted verses from the saga includes the line 'And may I trust a broken axe before an elf again.'
98,"The Old Fisherman' - A shanty about a mysterious old Dwarven fisherman, encountered in the middle of the ocean on a little skiff. According to legend, if the fisherman is disturbed by a ship and not treated with respect, he kills every guilty soul on the ship with his gaff and leaves them hanging from the yardarms like a fish market."
99,"Simon McGurk' - A shanty about a brilliant but lazy pirate. 'Oh Simon McGurk, scared stiff of work, sailing all over the sea...'"
100,"Greed's Foul End' - A movement from a morality play featuring a single musician and a vocalist. The piece is about the dangers of greed and the benefits of charity. Poignant, but difficult to pull off; often a touchstone work for performers of an ecclesiastical bent."

d100,Entry

1,"This demon has long fangs, almost 6 inches in length. They seem to be dropping with a greenish saliva."
2,This demon has curved horns coming off the sides of it's head. They come to an almost complete circle.
3,The demons skin is devoid of pigment and has a slimy texture similar to amphibian skin. Dark blotches appear where it is hit by radiant damage.
4,The demon is covered in rock like scales that burn like coal for days after being shed.
5,The demon has multiple sets of teeth like a shark.
6,"The demon has a misshapen, vestigial, but still very angry additional head coming out of it's neck."
7,"Whenever the demon inhales, its lungs glow bright enough to be seen through it's chest."
8,The demon's skull has multiple spiky bone tumors that push up through the skin on its face.
9,The demon has an additional eyeball in the back of its mouth.
10,The demon has the symbol of a devil lord branded into its back.
11,One of the demon's limbs is replaced by a limb of a humanoid or animal from the prime material plane.
12,The demon has scars from a mind flayer's tentacles around its head.
13,"The demon has four eyes, and blinks two at a time."
14,The demon's face is twisted into an unnatural smile.
15,The demon has long bony fingers that end in sharp claws
16,The demon is constantly shedding it's skin.
17,The demon’s mouth stretches all the way around its head so that it opens up like a dustbin made of flesh.
18,The demon’s veins visibly move around under its skin.
19,The demon has moss and plants growing out of every crease.
20,"The demon's horns and claws are disconnected from their body, floating just above the place they would normally be, subtly shifting around like snakes looking for an opening to strike."
21,"The demon's form is flat and empty, like a hole in the world. All that can be seen are it's fiery eyes."
22,The demon's tail splits into a hundred barbed whips.
23,"The demon's eyes are sunken pits, filled with orbs of molten metal, constantly dripping and burning their flesh."
24,"The demon's enormous neck has a ring of regular-sized rooster heads around it. They screech and crow, drowning out anything it might say."
25,"This demon lacks a physical form entirely, and must invade a person's shadow to communicate with them."
26,"This demon's eyes change every time it blinks. Now they are slitted like a cat's eyes. blink now they empty black voids dotted with distant, dying stars. blink now they have two pupils each, which move independently from the eyeball and each other. blink now..."
27,"The demon has eyes or mouths that don't logically make sense to be there (in the stomach/neck, for instance)."
28,This demon has no reflection and doesn't cast a shadow.
29,"This demon is hard to look at. It repels your gaze like a magnet. In peripheral vision, it seems mostly human, but if you try to stare directly at it your eyes will be repelled or your eyelids will become uncomfortably heavy. Perception/Notice checks against are likely to cost a bit of Sanity."
30,This demon is covered in human genitals.
31,"This demon is a million insects beneath a cloak. From a distance it looks mostly normal, but emits an ominous low buzz and a foul smell. It can change its body shape and even its complexion so that it passes for a human under most conditions. By the time you're close enough to see that its flesh is actually a rippling swarm of beetles, moths, flies, and grubs, it's usually too late."
32,"This demon can shapeshift, but has a poor memory for numbers. For instance, it always gets something wrong about how many eyes, fingers, tongues, and more rarely arms and legs a human has."
33,"This demon is a cast iron brazier that walks around on three clawed feet. It can form a torso, head, and arms out of the hellfire that burns within."
34,This demon has no skin and secretes foul-smelling blood constantly.
35,This demon has an extra face bulging out of its body.
36,"This demon has a massive, gaping mouth in the center of its stomach, with a long, black tongue dripping with dark saliva as it tastes the air. You can faintly hear wails and screams coming from deep within its maw, as if the sound originated from a deep cave."
37,"This demon has a large scorpion’s tail, the tip of which is visibly simmering with acidic venom."
38,"This demon’s form shifts, jitters, and stutters, sometimes even disappearing from sight completely for a moment, then reappearing. Its state of being seems to be, in a way, causing static in the space around it."
39,"This demon’s shadow seems to be that of an ordinary human being, despite looking quite inhuman in the flesh."
40,"This demon’s Head is wreathed in a fiery halo, circling counter-clockwise."
41,"All of this demon’s limbs (head, arms, legs, tail, etc.) appear to be faced backwards."
42,This demon’s front limbs end in the massive paws of a bear (bear hands).
43,"This demon’s entire body is covered in small, jagged spikes, and it seems to be in a state of constant pain. Every step this demon takes causes it to wince, wail, or growl in discomfort."
44,"This demon is covered head to toe in long hair, Cousin It style."
45,"This demon’s tongue is long, stretchy, and ends in a wicked barbed hook. The demon can use this tongue to make a grappling attack from a medium distance, causing piercing damage while restraining the target."
46,This demon has 4 abnormally long arms formed by dark smoke that keeps rearranging in wicked forms.
47,"The demon has a spiny back with two lumps on each scapula that look ready to burst. When the demon is enraged, the lumps crack, and out springs two bat-like wings, dark and covered in a bloody mucus."
48,This demon has a prehensile tail with spikes that enlarge when the demon is angry.
49,"The demon’s belly is huge and bloated, and sloshes can be heard when it’s moving, as if it were fully of liquid."
50,The demon’s wings are thin and tattered. Holes and tears speckle the surface.
51,"The demon’s hands are very human-like, but the palms face the wrong way. Like a rakshasa’s."
52,"The demon’s hair seems close enough to human hair, but upon close inspection the hair is revealed to be incredibly long and thin spikes."
53,The demon’s skin is incredibly oily and covered in grime.
54,The demon’s irises are a different color to all those who look at it.
55,"This demon seems completely human, but its reflection is that of a hideous monster."
56,This demon has a giant bloated elastic belly. hands & faces seem to be pressed up against the inside of it's belly as if swallowed people are trying to force their way out.
57,"This demon seems to be made of a mishmash of other demons parts. In fact if it gets close to a fallen demon, it will remove the other demons limbs and attach them to itself."
58,"The demon had sickly, weeping sores around it’s body, dripping viscous liquid"
59,The demon has obsidian rings and armbands permanently sealed to it’s body
60,The demon has a plume of bloody red feathers going down it’s back
61,The demon has several contracts tattooed onto it’s body- each one signed with a scar on the demon’s back
62,The demon has a collection of smashed holy symbols around it’s neck.
63,The demon’s eyes are covered by a thin layer of skin
64,"The demon has cancerous growths covering one of it’s limbs, making it almost useless."
65,The demon has a metal nose where it’s own has been cut off.
66,The demon's throat is covered in sickly boils that inflate and swell when it breathes.
67,This demon's lower jaw is split down the middle.
68,The demon's limbs and torso appear to only be attached to each other by rusted hooks.
69,"The demon's skin is covered in little holes, little worms and maggots occasionally pop out of them and then retreat back down."
70,"The demon's arms are actually snakes: one is venomous, but the other is a constrictor."
71,The demon's head appears to be a featureless metallic sphere. Or maybe that's just a metallic sphere around the demon's head. You can't tell.
72,The demon's mouth has been sewn shut. That doesn't keep it from talking... somehow.
73,"The demon's eyes have been sewn shut. It can still see you, though you don't see how."
74,The demon closely resembles a red Tiefling except it has its eyes where its ears should be. and no ears whatsoever.
75,"The demon has no face, but instead, its head has the outlines of fully extended hands and fingers burned into it."
76,This Demon has three rows of baby teeth. The Demon did not grow these teeth itself.
77,"When this demon walks and talks, it's skin fractures. Cracks and orifices seem to open, and appear to be held together by glue."
78,"This demon has warty green skin, a thin hooked nose, three eyes, and no arms. Large muscular legs support a significantly smaller torso and head. The demon stands 8 feet tall."
79,"The demon is covered in nail-like protrusions giving it a ridged, scaly appearance."
80,"The demon is small, like an infant, but it's sunken eyes glow a dark red."
81,The demon takes the form of a lost loved one to whoever sees it.
82,"The demon appears to each, as an exact copy of themselves, as if looking into a mirror."
83,"This demon has horns growing out of its eyes, ears or any place where horns shouldn’t be."
84,"The demon looks like he is made of coal. When he exhales, puffs of soot fly out of his mouth."
85,"This demon has multiple arms of varying lengths and thickness, protruding from seemingly random areas of it's body."
86,"This demon has 3 heads, each one on top of the other like a totem pole."
87,"This demon has shiny black skin like patent leather, and a row of sharp teeth running vertically from the top of its head to it's groin like a zipper."
88,"This demon’s head resembles a huge bat with a large bloated stomach, it’s wings extended out on each side."
89,"This demon’s skin is dripping with a foul smelling yellow, viscous, oily substance that collects in a pool beneath it, corroding the floor."
90,This demon has a completely featureless face. You can still hear it perfectly and it can still see you.
91,This demon’s stomach is furry. On closer inspection they are small quills.
92,"This demon’s limbs, hands and feet all has an extra joint."
93,This demon’s eyes are turned 90 degrees.
94,This demon’s body is covered in a thick mucus. It smells of Sulphur.
95,This demon has a metal prosthetic tail covered in runes. When it moves you can see hellfire in the spaces between the plates and joints.
96,"The demon carries with it a heaping mass of trophies won in previous battles and conflicts, either in a kart or on its back, ranging from armor and weapons, to body parts and living captives."
97,"The demon has white skin, stretched thin so you can see the veins. Its head only has a mouth with sharp fangs inside. Where there should be eyes and nose is just smooth skin. It has long arms and walks like a gorilla"
98,The demon is extremely hairy and has a humanoid shape. One arm is extremely muscular and almost the size of it's torso. It drags the big arm like a club. It's head has almost no neck and resembles a pig head
99,A humanoid torso on a spider like thorax. The spider part is rocky and jagged and the humanoid part is pink flesh that is red with bloody scars. On its neck is a giant pyramid like head made of the same jagged rock skin as the spider lower half. One of the points of the pyramid opens like a beak into a monstrous jaw.
100,"A whispy figure, no thicker than a normal human arm at any point in its body. It resembles a walking stick figure but made of flesh and with jagged tooth like growths on it's torso and arm."

d100,Entry

1,An invisible nymph sings to you. Gain a d10 Bardic inspiration die.
2,The water is warm and invigorating. You regain 1d12 hit points every hour.
3,The water sizzles and is mildly acidic. You are resistant to acid damage.
4,The water smells like berries. You are fully fed for the next 24 hours.
5,"You feel a sinister presence in the water seep into you. You have advantage on intimidation rolls and are immune to fear. Other people will feel a shiver down their spine, if they look you in the eye."
6,You gain the attention of a denizen of the Feywild. d4 Sprites whom have cast invisibility on themselves follow you around and are friendly towards you.
7,"The water's surface is frozen, but feels comfortably warm. You gain resistance to cold damage and you are not negatively effected by cold temperature."
8,"The water seems murky, but if you dip your head in it, you can see clearly through it. You have Truesight at a range of 60 feet."
9,"You hear mumblings in a foreign language coming from under the water. When you bathe in it, you can understand it. You can speak one random language, you didn't know before."
10,"The water emanates a light, warm glow. The glow is transferred to you. Your body emanates dim light in a 15 feet radius."
11,"Flower petals are resting on the water's surface. While near living plants, you gain +5 to Wisdom and Constitution saving throws."
12,"The water is red. Your melee attacks deal an additional 1d6 damage, if the target is not at its maximum hit points."
13,"The water surface remains completely still, even if you bathe in it. You have advantage on saving throws pertaining to fear and charm effects."
14,"The water is steaming hot, but it doesn't hurt to enter. You gain an additional hit die for rests and have resistance to fire damage."
15,"The water seems shrouded in shadow. You have advantage on stealth checks, and darkvision 60 ft."
16,"The water has no visible bottom, and if you fall in, you will continue to sink indefinitely, although it takes only a single round's movement to reach the surface again from any depth. After submerging yourself in the water, the next time you fall from a height of greater than 10 feet you will be under the effect of the Featherfall spell."
17,"The water does not run along a groove in the earth, rather it runs along the surface of the ground while keeping its shape. Drinking some of the water grants advantage on DEX (Acrobatics) checks made to keep balance."
18,"The more you drink, the thirstier you become. Anything you consume over the next 24 hours does not take effect until after the 24 hours are over, at which point you gain the benefits of everything you consumed at once."
19,"The stream tastes botanical and overly sweet, with a bubbly texture. Until your next long rest, you gain advantage on all WIS (Perception) and STR (Athletics) checks, you have advantage on DEX saves, your move speed increases by 10 feet, and if you use an action to make a melee attack, you can use a bonus action to make another melee attack with disadvantage. However, you do not gain any of the benefits of your next long rest, including taking a level of exhaustion."
20,The spring water tastes of dust and stale air and you find yourself parched after drinking from it. For the next 24 hours you find yourself able to read and understand all languages native to the plane you are in.
21,The spring feels ice cold although no ice is visible on the surface. Your skin grows completely numb for a short period and after inspection has grown tougher. Your AC is raised by 3 for 24 hours.
22,The water fills you with a jittery energy and your finger tips and toes tingle constantly for the remainder of the effect. You gain +10 movement speed and require no sleep for the next 24 hours. Although a period of inactivity must be taken to regain rest benefits.
23,When submerged in the water you gain a vision of your future presented by a hero of times past. It feels as though vision takes hours but to none participants takes only seconds. [May be a vision presented by the DM or a use of the portance spell]
24,"The longer you stare into the water the more distorted your reflection becomes. At first your eyes shift through colors slowly, than your hair, soon every characteristic is changing in a blur. The player at this point can select a complete physical change lasting for the 24 hour period. This is not an illusion but does not effect voice, mannerisms or age. [DMs choice if a minor effect of this is Permanent]"
25,"The water looks darker than usual, but feels oddly refreshing. You gain 2d4/2d6 Temporary HP upon drinking it."
26,The water makes you 10 years younger.
27,The water turns you into a Water Elemental for 3 rounds your next fight.
28,The water makes any pixie fall in love with you. They bring you 1GP each as a present.
29,"Upon drinking the water, it freezes into a 500GP sapphire which you spit out. This can only happen once per day."
30,The water sticks in your mouth and you pull out a scroll of Create or Destroy Water. This can only happen once per day.
31,The waters ripple in confusing patterns but you can still see the bottom clearly. You can now tell that any illusion is false for the duration.
32,The water appears to rush quickly and as you drink or put your head under this water all your hair stands on end and you feel a small electric shock. You become resistant to lightning damage for the duration.
33,The water droplets stay in the air for longer than they should when splashed. Your standing and running jumps double for the duration.
34,"You can see the reflections of your companions in the water, but not of yourself. Upon contact with the water, anything touched is invisible for the duration."
35,The water is fizzy and flavorful. Healing potions and healing spells applied to you have their effects doubled.
36,"The water tastes metallic, and feels weird. You reach into your mouth and pull out 1d6+2 gp. This can only happen once per day."
37,"The water tastes especially refreshing, and your mind feels clearer than ever. You gain 1d6 on initiative rolls."
38,"The water tastes lucky, for lack of a better term. Add a +20 bonus to the result of a single skill check for today."
39,"The spring's water and mist are cleansing and revitalizing. In addition to you being cleaned, any fabric left out within 10 feet of the water's edge for more than a minute will be cleaned as if by a prestidigitation cantrip and smell faintly of lilac for a day."
40,"The water is curiously, unpleasantly warm. You don't need to go to the toilet for the next 24 hours."
41,A cattail plant hits you on the forehead as you pass by. You feel your skin begin to singe and everyone will recognize this as the mark belonging to the god of the local ecosystem. The god will surely curse those who kill you as long as you travel within the same area for the day.
42,"The spring is surrounded by a thick shrubbery dipped in morning dew blocking your way. Any weapon used to cut it down, absorbs the dew which turns to silver on the weapon's edge. Your piercing and slashing weapons affected by the dew count as silvered for the next 24 hours. Dipping your hair in the water turns it silver. The hair sells for 15sp per foot."
43,"You find a piece of driftwood floating on the water. Upon closer inspection you realize it is a flute. If you play its last cord, it falls apart and all who hear it gain +1 spell-casting proficiency."
44,"As you reach out and touch the water, you feel it is hard and smooth. The water around your touch slowly recedes into a pebble forming at your touch. The pebble can be broken to release 75 liters of fresh water. This can only happen once per day."
45,"A pale, fae spirit rises from the waters holding a violin. You speak a while and it teaches you a few chords. You now have advantage on performance and persuasion checks for 24 hours."
46,The spirit of the last creature you slew rises from the water and silently follows you. Each foe you face that day must make a DC 12 Wisdom saving throw or become frightened. At the end of the day the shade returns to the afterlife.
47,The water turns foul and stings your skin. You gain the poison touch ability - anyone you touch must make a DC 12 Con saving throw or suffer 2d6 poison damage.
48,"As you approach the stream, the water rises, stretches out tendrils of trickling water and embraces you entirely, changing color and shape, applying itself like a new skin upon you. For the next 24 hours, you are under the effects of the Polymorph spell except restricted to humanoid forms only. [DM's discretion as to which form, and gender, player takes]"
49,"The stream appears to sparkle, like stars of the endless space were within it. For the next 24 hours, all intelligence saves and checks you make are considered a natural 20. The actual intelligence check roll however determines if player suffers a short-term madness (DMG, pg. 259), against a DC of 8."
50,"Walking closer to the stream, your nostrils are filled with the aroma of your favorite food dishes and you feel eager to prepare a meal. For the next 24 hours, you are a masterful magical cook who can prepare any non-living organic material into the tastiest and most fulfilling meals. These meals perish after 1d4+1 days."
51,"With each step toward the stream, it seems to react to your presence. Vapors arise from it, ominously at first, but then it solidifies. For the next 24 hours, you gain a Steam Mephit (MM, pg 217) as your familiar as if under the Find Familiar spell."
52,"A mute, spectral dove rests on the edge of the water. It flies through anyone bathing in the water and fills them with a longing for peace. You have +8 bonus on persuasion skill checks unless you attack a creature."
53,"The waters noises sound faintly like a rich orchestra playing. Any player drinking this water is convinced they are in a musical, and have an irresistible urge to join in with the melody (which changes with the topic of conversation, sad conversation = tragic music, making a plan = montage music) which gains them advantage on any charisma skill checks. Any character who tries to ignore this becomes distracted through not syncing with the music, and takes disadvantage on all charisma skill checks. DM's discretion as to whether any of the other characters hear the overtures."
54,"The water tastes perfumed, drinking it gains advantage on any charisma checks against female characters."
55,"The water smells slightly of musk, drinking it gains advantage on any charisma checks against male characters."
56,"Upon contact with the water, any creature immediately falls unconscious for 6d6 hours. The creature cannot be woken up except by magical means. Once the creature naturally wakes up, they feel more awake than they have in ages. They do not require sleep for the next 1d4 days and during that period all short rests count as long rests. If woken up prematurely, they do not gain any of the benefits, but all levels of exhaustion will be removed."
57,"The water tastes slightly of celery, feels cold to your teeth and can be felt as it works the way through your digestive track. You start to feel hungry. for the next day you can eat and digest any plant or plant material (even wood) as you would normal food. Eating any food of this nature caries no negative effect that would normally apply (such as poison). The taste is completely unchanged."
58,"The water tastes saline and stings your throat as you drink it. You find yourself gasping for air for a few moments, but as you stabilize, you feel something protruding from your neck. You have grown gills and your feet/toes are now webbed. You can breathe underwater and gain a 30 ft. swimming speed for 1d6 hours."
59,All of a creature's hair changes color on contact with the water. Roll on this table to determine the color: 1: White 2: Blond 3: Light Brown 4: Dark Brown 5: Red 6: Black
60,"The water has a few electric sparks coming out of it, and something emitting a golden glow in it. If you try to investigate, you will find a golden egg, that immediately hatches into an adult friendly platypus that follows you around for 24 hours, and has a weak electric breath attack."
61,"The water is hot like a fire but doesn't burn creatures, it burns any curses away as if a Greater Restoration spell has been cast on you. This can only happen once a day per character."
62,"If drunk, the water sizzles on your tongue and a minty fresh steam escapes your mouth. You are granted Keen Smell (you have advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on your sense of smell)."
63,You hear a faint chirping. Any bird in a 60 feet radius will act friendly towards you and feel compelled to follow you.
64,Small talking berries float along the stream. You can talk to fruits.
65,"Clear bubbles slowly rise from the water. You can blow bubbles that when popped, whisper a small pleasantry."
66,"As you dip your hand in the water, it seems to guide your fingers' movement. You have advantage on all skill checks pertaining to the use of tools."
67,The water seems unnaturally heavy if lifted. Enemies have disadvantage on attempts to grapple or knock you prone and you are immune to Telekinesis and Reverse Gravity.
68,The water rushes at an incredible speed. Your movement speed is increased by 15 ft.
69,The water faintly glows in all the rainbow's colors. You can cast Color Spray at level 1 as a cantrip.
70,"Though the water appears 10 feet shallow, you can not feel the bottom. Submerging yourself in the water requires you to tread water. The rocky bottom feels liquid to you! You can Earth Glide as if you were an Earth Elemental."
71,"The water swirls in a circular pattern and seems to pulse with some unearthly power. If bathed in, the water stops swirling and the one who bathed in it gets +6 to one stat (str,dex,con...) determined randomly for the next 24 hours."
72,"As you drink the water, you feel your eyes tear up and you cry uncontrollably. After a minute the crying ends and your eyes feel clear. For 24 hours your irises/pupils are replaced with a small disk of gold. While this lasts, You gain proficiency with the perception skill if you don't already have proficiency. If you do have proficiency, your proficiency bonus is doubled. Any creature that you are speaking with and are making eye contact with cannot lie."
73,"The water makes your entire mouth feel numb and you can noticeably feel your heartbeat slow. You feel a wave of tranquility sweep over your mind. for the next 1d8 hours you cannot be charmed, frightened or intimidated, and gain resistance to physic damage. Using Barbarian Rage cancels this effect."
74,Drinking the water causes you to immediately fall over and dirt to rise up around your hands. You learn a ranger cantrip of your choice for 24 hours and can now cast a ranger spell of first level of the DM's choosing for free once.
75,"The water is extremely cold to the touch. Trying to drink the water causes you to choke profusely until you throw up a massive cloud of freezing mist. For the next 24 hours you gain a breath attack that deals 1d8 cold damage in a 15 foot cone. If you are a dragonborn that already has a cold breath ability, the damage is doubled. Drinking anything hot or eating anything spicy ends this ability."
76,The water burns your throat as you drink it. You feel your blood rush through your limbs. The next melee attack you make that hits deals max damage. This effect ends if you take a rest or are incapacitated before your attack.
77,The water is slightly repulsed by objects as if a magnetic field controls it. The water is attracted to any ranged weapon nearing it. Any ranged attack you make will deal 1d6 extra force damage and push back enemies 5 feet if they fail a DC 15 strength check.
78,The water flow is unnaturally slow. Your ranged attacks slow enemies by 10 feet for 1 round.
79,"The water feels unbearably hot, but at the same time, strangely inviting. A character that bathes in the water for a minute feels this heat through their entire body. After this point, they will continue to steam for 2d8 hours after leaving the water, and their skin will be as hot as a red hot iron. During this period, any creature that performs a melee attack against the character within 5 feet takes 1d4 fire damage. All unarmed attacks by the character deal an additional 1d4 fire damage. Drinking or eating anything cold cancels this effect."
80,"The spring has gold coins at its bottom. The gold coins burst into harmless flames and disappear upon leaving the water. Bathing in the water gives you advantage on perception, investigation and survival checks pertaining to dragons or treasure hoarded by dragons. You also gain +10 on persuasion checks against dragons unless they succeed a DC 20 Insight check to notice the effect of the spring on you."
81,"Upon contact with the water you feel oddly tenacious. Every oppressive thought, negative emotion and unhealthy anxiety that was plaguing you disappears as your mind fills with confidence and calm. You gain 2 legendary resistances (for this day only)."
82,"The water's reflection acts like a window to another place. Upon contact with the water, you gain the ability to freely scry on a random location (DM's discretion) on this plane of existence or another."
83,"The water is crystal clear and unnaturally refreshing. Drinking it gives you one extra hit die to use at short rests and makes you notice small crevasse and details around you, that you didn't see before. You gain advantage on perception checks and always know the armor class, weaknesses and resistances of a creature you've studied for over 30 seconds."
84,"You can hear very faint, angelic singing under the surface. You have resistance to all damage dealt to you by undead and fiends. You can also read and speak celestial."
85,"The water's surface shimmers and sparkles in a mesmerizing pattern. You can't shake the feeling, that someone is prying into your mind. You gain the ability to summon a flumph as an action. The flumph lasts for a number of minutes equal to your level (doubled if your alignment is lawful good). After that, the flumph poofs out of existence. The flumph is not under your control unless your alignment is lawful good, and it will act friendly towards anyone with a good alignment. You can only summon a flumph this way 3 times per short rest."
86,Sparkling lights slowly rise from the water. You gain 1d6 random skill proficiencies.
87,"The water tastes foul and stale, but it invigorates you. All poison damage you take now heals you for that amount instead."
88,Tiny spectral boats float on the surface of the water. Your traveling speed on a mount or vehicle is doubled and you gain advantage on skill checks while you're traveling on sea.
89,The water is lagoon green and smells like tea. Drinking it makes you acutely aware of your surroundings. You gain advantage on dexterity saving throws and +5 to intelligence checks.
90,"The your reflection in the water is not of you, but of one of your family members. You can cast sending 5 times per short rest to that person."
91,"Drinking from the water fills you with a cozy, sleepy sensation. You can kiss a willing creature on the mouth to put them to sleep for 8 hours. The creature will wake up from anything that would normally wake it up from its sleep (except being well rested). The creature does not have to be aware of the effect, but it has to be willing to kiss."
92,"The water sticks on you like mucus. Whenever you are healed above your maximum hit points, you gain temporary hit points equal to the amount healed. This amount can not exceed 3 times your level."
93,"Drinking the water numbs you to the world, and you fall to the ground. After a few seconds, you can get up on your feet again with renewed strength. Whenever you are affected by a condition that would make you incapacitated, you can as a reaction choose to be knocked prone instead. You can however only use this reaction if you're not knocked prone."
94,"Memories of the past seeps into you, if you bathe in or drink the water. You gain advantage on history checks and +1 to all your base attributes."
95,You can hear a heartbeat coming from the spring. You have advantage on death saving throws.
96,"The water creates small whirlpools in different colors. After you take damage from a spell, you gain resistance to that type of damage until you take damage from a spell again."
97,The water tastes bitter and vaguely of banana and chocolate. You gain +5 to your strength and advantage on skill checks pertaining to arm wrestling.
98,"A snake made of water crawls out of the spring and nods at you, before it disperses into a puddle. For d4 days, you gain the ability to summon this snake from any source of water. It has the stats of a poisonous snake, is under your control and can squeeze through any opening, that water would be able to travel through. It can disperse into a puddle of water, that will disappear in 10 hours."
99,"Through the splashes in the water, you can faintly hear echoes of the sounds you make yourself, as if captured in the water. You gain the ability to copy any sound you've heard, so long as it hasn't been more than an hour since you heard it last (this includes your own copy of that sound)."
100,"Drinking the water fills you with immense power, that tears through your body. Drinking one sip gives you +1 to all your base attributes, but decreases your maximum hit points by 10% (rounded up). You can only be brought back to life with True Resurrection or a Wish spell, if you die by drinking 10 sips of this. After 24 hours, you will gain points of exhaustion dependening on how many sips you took. Additional effects occur on higher amounts of sips. The effects are listed on the below table."

d100,Entry

1,"This battle takes place in front of a massive furnace. As the battle goes on, the furnace gets hotter and hotter, to near unbearable levels. Someone needs to tend to the huge furnace while the others battle to keep from melting!"
2,The boss will summon enemies that will distract the players from the fact that the boss is healing themselves.
3,"The room in which the boss is designed like a long hallway. As the boss grows weaker, they will run further down the long room. Traps cover the room."
4,"The boss cannot be close to an object or another boss, or else it will rapidly restore health; keeping it away will make it easier to take down."
5,The boss is blind and takes damage when hit by natural light. Adventurers need to use the boss's Tremorsense/Echolocation to lead it into beams of light.
6,"The boss fuses with slimes to become bigger and stronger, but it can only get so big before it explodes."
7,"There are ongoing rituals around the area that must each be disrupted in a specific way within the next few minutes. Each completed ritual empowers the boss with negative energy, escalating the fight and drawing the end times closer."
8,Players must fight from the rafters above a stage while trying to stop the villain from sabotaging a performance going on below.
9,"The boss is in a sewer and monsters were placed in the sewer to deal with waste, but they end up attacking both the players and the boss."
10,"There is a massive minefield that has a bloodthirsty invisible stalker roaming around it. Mines deal heavy damage to both players and the elemental, and groups that can't find the stalker have to activate the mines to either kill it or scare it away."
11,"The villain casts a spell on the players that makes them speak and describe their actions in iambic pentameter. When the villain dies they cry out saying ""I am slain!"""
12,The party fights a creature that can turn people into lobsters for a turn if it hits them.
13,The boss is a lich who's phylactery is a bomb that would destroy the dungeon and everything within a three mile radius. Someone has to disarm the bomb while the other pcs keep the lich busy.
14,"The boss is in a gladiator style WWE ring. Through some hints during the fight, the players realize that the boss isnt actually trying to hurt them, and is instead trying to make the fight look as flashy as possible so that they can all survive another day in the arena."
15,"The players enter a room with a button and a locked door. If they press it, they are all knocked unconscious and dream about fighting a boss 4-5 cr higher than them. If they die in the dream they wake up in the real world, and the door to the next room is open. They can re-enter the dream to help whittle away at the boss or kill their friends to help speed up the process of them getting completing the dungeon."
16,"The boss can only be killed by mortal hands. Weapons, magic spells, and any damage type besides fists/natural weapons cannot damage the boss. Immortals and gods cannot damage it."
17,"The boss is a glass golem that can hide and heal inside of mirrors. Players can see the golem in the mirror, but must break the glass to force it to come out."
18,"The boss is stationary in the center of the room. When it receives enough damage from one if the cardinal directions it becomes invulnerable to damage from that side, forcing the players manuver around the room and minions to continue damaging it."
19,While walking through a cave they have PCs have accidentally walked into the open mouth of the boss. Tremors felt during random fights of slimes and cubes or small parasites eventually lead to acid pools. Party can flee or fight their way out. Possible risk of digestion if slow.
20,"Boss is a wall, slowly shrinking the room and pushing the party to a pit or wall of spikes."
21,Boss is a keg golem. Body is mostly full kegs. Some are filled with beer some are wine. Players can target weak points like corks or bungs to drain alcohol and wound the boss. Once limbs and parts are drained can be burned.
22,A village has a pit of ghouls/zombies. When a love one is dying they toss them in to be turned. You have been tossed in as food.
23,Boss contains a howling void. No verbal commands or spells work. See if the PCS can work with out speaking or writing to each other.
24,"Glued together: The boss is two deadly bosses inseparably glued back to back. Their movement is halved/thirded. They are not cooperating with one another. Only one of the individuals is dominant at a time, the other is dragged along. On their turn, roll a d4. On a 1, the bosses bicker amongst themselves and fail to take meaningful action (flip a coin to see if the dominant individual changes). On a 2 or 3, both bosses may attempt to attack a target they are facing but do so with disadvantage. On a four, the dominant boss may make an attack as normal, and the subordinate one attacks with disadvantage. If one individual dies or becomes otherwise incapacitated, the other is permanently dominant and attacks as normal, but its speed remains the same."
25,"Bratty halfpint tossing: The arrogant yet naive boss is being carried on a light palanquin by their strongest and fastest minions. The boss refuses to touch the the ground, as it is demeaning ... somehow more demeaning than the minions tossing the palanquin between them or using it as a blunt weapon when convenient. The boss is a powerful ranged attacker but spends half their turns shouting confusing orders instead of taking appropriate action. If the boss touches the ground, they have a temper tantrum and launch a very strong AoE spell at the party."
26,"Farty Fight: The boss is afflicted with horrible magical indigestion. Roll 1d4, on a 4 the boss, instead of acting, groans and releases a stinking cloud per the spell. They are unaffected by their own stinking cloud."
27,"The boss is a support character. Most of their goons are on the tanky side. Whenever their goons drop low, the boss heals them back up. The tanks protect the boss as well."
28,Stand in the Fire! - Boss takes extra damage from opponents who stand in a flow of Necrotic/Negative Energy. This causes the player to be damaged too.
29,Keep him out of the Fire! - There are flows of energy around the room that heal the Boss if he stands in it. You must knock him out of the flows to defeat him.
30,"Not-Zs, I hate these guys... - The bosses are a group of evil warrior-sorcerers that are exceedingly powerful, however they become pained and stunned whenever someone uses the letter ""z"" in conversation."
31,"Stone fishing: The boss is hiding in the mouth of a giant stone fish who can swim in the earth like water. The fish can't go outside a sphere of a certain radius, but it allows the boss to appear from the walls and ceilings and try to smash people."
32,"Shadow Tag: The boss can hold a person with advantage by simply standing on that person's shadow. The boss has multiple spotlights they can move around the battlefield. Although the boss cannot hold people on a dark battlefield, the boss has keen darkvision."
33,"Adaptivity Type A) The boss can only be damaged the first time by each attack, after that the boss becomes invulnerable to it until a they have a long rest. The party must come up with new ways to damage the boss. (Switch weapons, new spells, etc.) Adaptivity Type B) The boss is protected by a shield that reflects damage of the type last used to hit the boss."
34,"Bug Off! The boss tries to flood the battlefield with an effectively infinite number of tiny, weak, annoying baddies (bats, imps, mosquitoes). They will simply keep coming even if the whole cloud is killed. The sheer number would be lethal if they weren't driven off by (light, fire, sound, etc) Someone has to keep the antagonistic stimulus going during the boss fight and the boss targets the blocker preferentially."
35,"Armor Ecdysis: The boss is wearing powerful heavy armor that takes damage instead of the boss, but makes the boss slow. As the armor is attacked, it breaks off and leaves the boss vulnerable, but the boss gets faster and more maneuverable as a consequence. For each stage of armor that is destroyed, the boss takes more damage, the boss's heavy attacks get weaker/fewer, they become able to perform light attacks, Movement Speed +, Initiative order +, etc."
36,"The boss alternates between attacking and devensive modes. During attacking turns, it gains +10 to all damage but has -5 to attack rolls, can attack 3 times per turn but takes 2x damage from all physical attacks. After a certain amount of hp has been depleted (up to the DM) it switches to defensive mode. In this mode it can't attack or move, however it takes 1/4 damage from all physical attacks, has a 1 in 6 chance to reflect all damge back to the attacker and heals for Xd4 points (where X is the number of players it faces) at the start of its turn. The defensive mode lasts until it loses enough hp (again, up to the DM) or it recovers back to full health. It then returns to attack mode. The golem had five stages, each denoted by it losing a peice of armour after each defensive stage was ended by it taking damage rather than healing. Each time if returned to attack mode after losing armour, it's AC was reduced by 1 and its max hp by 20 but it gained an extra +1 to attack rolls."
37,"Meta-witch The boss asks the players campaign trivia questions during the battle. If the players answer correctly, the boss loses some hitpoints. Answer wrong and the boss gets to take an extra turn."
38,"Every round the boss auto-counters one type of attack at random ever round until the start of ot's next turn.. Roll a d3- 1: Melee 2: Magic 3: Ranged. If the boss is attacked via melee, it will counter with a melee strike, if the boss is attacked with a ranged strike, it counters with a ranged strike, etc."
39,"Alas poor Yorick - The skeleton boss has no head of its own. Instead it uses the skulls of others as a substitute. When it wears someone else's skull, the boss gets all of their abilities and their appearance. Taking enough damage causes the boss's current skull to explode. The boss should cycle through several different classes, helped by minions bringing hidden skulls. Eventually it runs out of skulls and attempts to flee, but like the proverbial chicken with its head cut off, can't tell where it is going."
40,"The boss gains resistance to a random damage type for one round, every round."
41,The boss is controlled by a card-based computer and the PCs can remove and insert various punch cards to change the boss' strategy or disable some of its abilities.
42,"The boss is hauled to the center of the courtyard by 3 henchmen. When unloaded, the boss is literally a pile of sentient cinder blocks. His AC is high, but has no movement speed. He can speak and cast magic or use his trusty short sword. If the adventurers investigate his corpse, they find that it just becomes a pile of cinder blocks"
43,"Pocketcursed: In the lair of the boss, everyone's pockets, bags, binders, satchels, cases, backpacks, suitcases, luggage, etc become bitey monster jaws. Attempting to retrieve an item or spell component results in (1d4) of damage with a risk of failure."
44,A massive pendulum in the lair reveals the invisible boss when the weight is at its height. The PC's can attempt using magic or physical means to hold the weight up and keep the enemy visible. The weight can also crash into the PC's or boss.
45,"The boss is a swarm of insects, nanomachines, magic particles, or something else similar. It has a large pool of total hitpoints, representing the amount of mass it has, although this mass can be split over multiple bodies. At the top of the initiative round, the swarm can split into smaller bodies or fuse with adjacent bodies to form larger bodies. For example, for one round they may be a horde of smaller, weaker creatures, and on the next round they may fuse together to become a larger and stronger creature. The DM has a number of stat blocks prepared for creatures this boss can form, each of which has a minimum HP requirement to form. To make things more interesting, there may be stores of additional mass hidden around the battlefield, which the boss will attempt to reach to regenerate hit points and mass. If they want to keep the boss down, the players will have to stop any part of the boss from reaching those stores of HP."
46,A baddie that gains new biological growths every two turns. Starts at like a CR4 with a bunch of health and eventually could be over CR 20. Work fast or PERISH.
47,"The boss is being healed by a certain amount, let's say 5dx per round (x going up depending on how high level the group is) because of healing crystals that are on platforms that need to be climbed in order to break. They each have a certain HP, and after being destroyed they stop healing."
48,"The boss is completely invulnerable. But that doesn't mean they are either physically strong or able to avoid, say, being locked up or captured. They just can't be physically hurt. Don't give them spells or fighting ability more than a commoner- just make them impervious to damage."
49,"The bosses are a dark mirror of the adventuring party from another plane. One of the main questgivers actually travelled from that plane to the adventurer's plane and gathered them together because he knew they had great power potential- since he knew of their evil might. Make them twisted versions of the characters, and have the player's aid come from good versions of baddies the characters fought on their home plane. For example- A gnome cleric was a warlock, the fighter was a death knight, the wizard was an enchanter, etc."
50,"The Cult of Six- The Big Bad has powerful hexatic powers. Every sixth attack heals her for twice the damage dealt. The catch-it is any attack, including a poke in the nose. Make sure the characters can catch on to this one."
51,"Lights turn off on rounds 2, 6, 10, etcetera and lights flare on in a blinding burst on rounds 4, 8, 12, etcetera and must make a Constitution save to avoid being blinded. Players can close their eyes to avoid the blinding but make their attacks with disadvantage that round."
52,"BBEG has a lair full of deadly traps and powerful minions, and always remains one step ahead of the PCs. During the final confrontation, the BBEG is revealed to simply be a clever and well-connected commoner, completely unable to fight head-on with the party."
53,"Overcharged- A Half-dragon that gets an increasingly powerful and large aoe attack at the end of each turn, but loses his stacks when knocked prone."
54,"Whilst the party is adventuring at sea, their ship is beset by a dragon turtle of legend named Kiirn. An intelligent and greedy sonofabitch, Kiirn sinks ships for their cargo which he then takes to his nest in a cove on a nearby island. The first stage of the fight takes place in the sea with players on a ship, which Kiirn is attempting to sink. The captain of the ship deems la d the only safe haven and heads for the nearest landmass, Kiirn's island. Along the way Kiirn may become damaged enough to retreat, but the Captain insists on landing and repairing the damage. Otherwise, the ship becomes damaged enough and sets off on a crash course for the beach. The second stage of the fight is a scramble up the beach as an angered Kiirn attempts to kill the party and sailors. Players may stand and fight, attempt to rescue the sailors or flee. Kiirn is less concerned with the cargo than the people at this point. The third stage follows the retreat up the beach, a chase through the rainforest on the island. The players may chase Kiirn to finish him off as he leads them to his cove, or Kiirn may chase the players, angered by their defiance and the damage they've done, or perhaps angered that they escaped him at the beach. The fourth stage is a fight in a large cave that leads to the cove. This is the point at which players and Kiirn alike are likely be exhausted and close to death. FINISH HIM. At each stage, Kiirn has a different objective which can vary based on the player's actions. You can also spice it up with Kiirn having something akin to lair actions in each of the stages as well as environmental opportunities."
55,"Each time you hit the boss, and it doesn't have temporary hit points, it gains 5 temporary hit point. Each time its temporary hit points are depleted, the amount of temporary hit points it gains from being hit increases by 1. A hit that depletes the temporary hit points grants a new set of temporary hit points after the remaining damage has been subtracted from the boss's regular hit points. You want to use as few and strong attacks as possible against this boss."
56,"Torvin the Backbiter - He is a Dwarf warrior who excels at disarming and using his enemies' weapons against them. He starts unarmed and tries to take the player's weapons. If he succeeds and makes a successful attack roll with their own weapon, he deals automatic max damage (or more, or less, depending how you want to play it)."
57,"The Midget Cultists of Oun-Bashon: A group of gnomes or halflings who worship a vile fire deity. The party catches up to them in a live caldera or volcano. Each one is relatively easy to beat, but they less attack and more attempt to grapple and drag themselves and the party into the live volcano, seeking glorious martyrdom in the heat."
58,"The boss has a stone that allows him to polymorph at will. If the players steal the stone, the boss loses the ability, but whoever holds the stone is polymorphed randomly every other turn. The Boss tries to get the stone back."
59,The Boss is warded against blades and anything with an edge does half damage. Bludgeoning works as normal. Attacks with wood items do double damage.
60,"The boss isn't targeting the players, but an NPC the players have to protect. Any damage done to the NPC is passed on to the nearest player."
61,"The boss is a ghost, with a council of 3 individuals. The boss takes turns possessing each council member every few turns, giving them new class specific spells."
62,"Every turn, the boss teleports as a bonus action. Everytime the boss takes damage, it teleports to a random spot in the arena."
63,"A necromancer that rips the hearts out of his acolytes, using them to a.) push thru players, dealing dmg for each heart sent and blooding the hearts b.) pull the hearts thru himself to heal for the amount they blooded c.) push/pull himself into position by using the hearts as anchors."
64,"Every time the boss kills something, he gains half its max hitpoints. He has a lot of minions and will not hesitate to kill them for a boost."
65,"Daughx the Mothtouched- boss can fly and do cool stuff, but is completely mesmerized by the dancing lights spell."
66,"A miniboss found in The Woods, a layer of the Abyss run by Granny Gooseflesh, a powerful Night Hag Sorcerer (the whole plane is a dark and forbidding woods, populated by dark versions of various nursery rhymes and fairy tales): The Piper is a powerful bard who summons rat swarms and sends them at the party. When they finally catch up to him, he has stolen and enchanted the children of a village, and uses them as shields/has them attack the party. The children don't do tons of damage, but they muck up the battlefield and are difficult to fight (because they are little kids)."
67,"There are three bosses and each one starts with an AC of 15. If the party kills one of them, one round later the other two's AC jumps up to 25. If the party kills a second one, one round later the last one's AC jumps to 30. The goal for the party is to kill all three in one round by paying attention to three glyphs on a wall that display how close to death each boss is by how brightly they are glowing."
68,"The Necro-dancer. When confronted in his dark lair, the lights suddenly go on, revealing the room to be a massive dace floor. At the start of each turn, “zone of irresistible dance” is cast through speakers that line the walls, which the Necro-dancer has the remote to. Each turn, the Necro dancer summons ‘backup dancer’ skeletons, or something that would be comparatively weak for the party’s level. This goes on until the song ends, at which point a giant disco ball is dropped from the ceiling with the intent to crush the players, taking advantage of the disadvantage dex throws and lowered movement. After that, the dancers stop being summoned, the zone of irresistible dance does not get cast again, and the Necro-dancer is left all alone. The song could also stop by breaking the speakers or remote, or escaping the dance floor."
69,"Boss is a low level mage with prototype clones surrounding you. Whenever you kill him, one of the clones wakes up, but gives the mage unique abilities. One clone might lower your AC for the fight, one may have a sneak attack and invisibility, another may cast hunters Mark, and gain the scout reaction to run when an enemy gets too close, all while retaining most of his spells."
70,"A pair of sorcerers who are madly in love. When the first one is knocked out, the other sorcerer, as a reaction, casts an incredibly powerful spell at whoever took them out."
71,"A boss duo, with a big enemy who hits hard and has a lot of HP, and a little enemy who can hold his own, but mostly assists the big enemy with healing/whatever. Whenever the little enemy is attacked, the big enemy goes crazy as a reaction, dealing a ton of damage, so the party has to try and focus on the big one without harming his buddy."
72,"A boss that is vulnerable only if you can't see it. If someone is looking at it, it can move around and can't be harmed. However, if no one is looking at it, its movement speed slows to a crawl and it is vulnerable. Cue everyone with their eyes closed, swinging blindly around the room!"
73,"The One Who Is Many- Boss has 99 copies of himself. A mob attacks the party, all identical. Roll d100 every time the party attacks. The boss shares a portion of his life force with each copy- when his copies are attacked, he takes damage with resistance. When he is attacked, he takes damage with vulnerability. When he has lost a third of his HP, and again when he has lost 2/3, a third becomes illusory looking."
74,"A mob boss that starts as several weak combatants, but when one is killed the survivors become stronger."
75,"The boss has a mirror hidden somewhere in the room. Anyone reflected in the mirror takes half of the damage inflicted on the boss. If the mirror is shattered, the boss gains vulnerability to all damage."
76,The boss is a corrupted holy artifact with lots of HP. The artifact's environmental effect causes the party to regenerate HP and it also fires healing beams. Healing beyond a creature's natural HP cap is added as temporary hitpoints. If any creature gains more than twice their HP in temporary hitpoints they die. Important detail: the boss cannot benefit from the regenerative environmental effect.
77,"Initially weak boss with lots of minions, but as the minions die, buff up the boss bit by bit. Either the players press through enemies to quickly kill them or they cut through an army and fight a big old baddy."
78,"A powerful knight is bound to the Bad Guy's service. He has to obey anyone who says ""please"" to him first. The Bad Guy has deafened him so he can't hear, but if you cure that..."
79,"A nearly impenetrable (if you dont take him out to dinner first) demon in a human shell, covered in runic tattoos- but if you land an arrow in the circle tattoo on his neck it allows damage to hit the target for the next 10 rounds or maybe however long the arrow is on target. Possible difficulty up- he's able to remove the arrows by passing a strength save."
80,"The Oracle had managed to somehow imprison their (God/Angel), piercing their immortal skin and chaining it up, leaving the weeping deity of rebirth constantly dripping blood. This Oracle uses magic to manipulate this holy blood to instantly heal any injury that they might sustain. The secret to defeating her, however, is to heal the Deity's injuries, robbing The Oracle of their crude immortality."
81,"A Bugbear with armor covered in worthless jewels he has glued and embedded in his armor, knocking them out can be used as a bargaining chip to pacify him from attacking."
82,"A towering, ominous obelisk made of steel is guarded by 3-6 Animated Armors, 3-6 Flying Swords, and 1-3 Helmed Horrors. The obelisk is covered in glowing arcane sigils and scribbles that shine brighter when the player's step forward to confront it, at which point the assorted defenders move to attack. The obelisk manifests a eye-like sigil which moves around its surface each turn to channel a beam that repairs and reanimates fallen defenders. This beam causes the target to regain 3d8 hit points as the components are magically regrown and imbued once more with magical energy, and is fired one time on each of the obelisk's turns. Any destroyed constructs hit with the beam come back to life at 0 hit points and regain the amount rolled for the beam, though they cannot take their turn until the following round. To beat the obelisk boss, the invaders may attempt to attack a construct targeted by the eye beam while the ray is being channeled, which causes the amount of damage dealt to it to also go through to the arcane entity within the obelisk. The boss also takes 10 damage every time one of the arcane sigils or a significant part of a particular scribble is erased or damaged in some way, whether the marks are gashed deeply with a blade or blotted out with a destructive spell. The arcane entity within the obelisk has a total of 80 hit points, while the obelisk and the magical markings on it have an AC of 15. Destroying the obelisk entity makes it dissipate into the surrounding area without a trace, causing the arcane markings to go dark and all the constructs to fall apart, thereby ending the boss fight."
83,"Some amorphous creature that is under the permanent effect of a mirror image spell that refreshes after all images are dispersed (which could be flavored as overlapping images of the same figure, or many different figures, like nightmares, occupying the same space). The trick is to use area of effect spells, or somehow marking the real creature on a successful hit. For instance, striking the creature with a dagger tied to an immovable rod will pin down the real creature and prevent it from shifting around, rendering the mirror mages useless."
84,"A troll from Chult that was infused with firenewt blood that gives it resistance to fire damage. Acid does normal damage but no longer disables it's regeneration, only necrotic damage will stop it's regen."
85,"Two humanoids (Gladiators, Assassins or Githyanki, for example, depending on the CR you want) whose secret dream is to be an animal. If you polymorph one of them they stop being hostile, and the one you didn't polymorph will kindly ask you if you can do the same to them. Then they'll both leave peacefully."
86,"A massive Clockwork Golem that needs to wind itself up every so often using the wind-up key on it's back. If it cannot, it powers down and goes dormant until wound back up again."
87,"A magic user fights with his pet wyvern. The man is difficult to hit due to a variety of defensive and knockback spells such as Wind Wall and Gust of Wind, while the wyvern has naturally tough defenses and resistances. However, when one moves (including reactions), the other doesn't. They also share the same HP pool."
88,A tall thin monk wanders a forest moving with the sounds of nature and attacks with capoeira. He gets +7 to dexterity unless music with no rhythm is being played. Then he gets -7 to dexterity.
89,"A tall suit of enchanted armor that roams the countryside, gathering corpses for its necromancer master. It has an obscene amount of health and CON and cannot take damage from an attack that does less than 10 damage. A called attack to the head that does more than 30 damage or a grapple check followed by a DC 15 STR check will remove the armor’s helm from its shoulders, causing it to collapse. An arcana check will reveal that the armor is powered by a small gem on the inside of its forehead. A DC 19 slight of hand can remove the gem."
90,"An artificer that uses a set pool of arcane energy (let's say 100 mana) to power his magical armor and wand. He uses various spells, each of which take away mana. His magical armor prevents damage to himself at the cost of mana. However, he can spend a turn draining mana from other lifeforms (namely players), so the trick with him is to either break his gear directly, disable the magical effect somehow or run him out of mana."
91,"A crystal golem vulnerable to thunder damage fights in a cathedral or other temple. Nearby is a large bell or gong. Attacking the gong converts incoming bludgeoning damage to Thunder area damage. Lure the golem into the area, strike the gong - bingo."
92,The Regenerating Water Elemental - A water elemental that heals to full health after each round of combat from the lake in which it resides. Deals AOE damage equal to amount of health regenerated (no other forms of damage output). Must be burst to 0 HP in one turn or somehow disconnected from the lake. (Maybe it's taunted or charmed into leaving the lake. Maybe the water is frozen or evaporated. Maybe a bubble of air/wind surrounds the elemental.)
93,"A singular Flesh Golem that's body size towers over any medium size creature. The Flesh Golem's skin has seen a number of brutal battles, and has caused it to become torn which a poor slave has had to stitch up repeatedly after each battle. The Golem often bleeds from the stitches in combat ex-specially when the beast takes fire damage causing the creature to take disadvantage on attack rolls and ability checks until the end of its next turn. The creature often leaves out a loud roar when burned by any source of fire damage. Whenever the Golem's hit points fall below 50% (207/18D12+90), any fire damage that the Golem is dealt is also half and dealt to the Golem's creator who is within 90 feet of the battle."
94,A drow beastmaster uses an owlbear to destroy the group. The only problem is that the creature is easily persuaded by food.
95,A goblin boss owns an army of 2D12 clay golems. There is a large crack on the back of each one.
96,"A beholder that tries to argue that the group will lose no matter what they do. If a player argues with it enough, it enters a fit of rage. This makes strength rise, but every other stat lower."
97,Strong fighter type character with a great sword that emanates magic power. Turns out that he’s being possessed by the weapon. When disarmed he won’t know where he is or what is going on and surrender immediately. Just make sure that no one else picks up the sword.
98,"A cyclops that teleports 15ft back every time it's hit by an attack. The only way to damage it is by using spells/ bombs that affect both spaces at once, stealth attack it, or coordinate multiple attacks, so there are players waiting to strike as the cyclops teleports. Approximate CR is 7, one more than a normal cyclops, even though it's stats are the same."
99,"A gargoyle with a big scratch on it's neck. The gargoyle's skin is tough rock, making it immune to all but psychic damage, unless the damage is applied to the tissue under the scratch. A character can make a CR 13 STR (athletics) check to keep it open the bruise for one turn, which becomes a CR 18 check if the gargoyle is airborne. Another character can step in to help, giving the strongest character advantage in the check. Approximate CR is 5, two more than a normal gargoyle."
100,"Blind sorceress uses bird familiar to see. When the bird is blinded, or taken out of commission she will use AOE attacks in an attempt to attack the party. If she has allies, they may be caught in the crossfire. If any of her allies are near her, they can help direct her attacks but she won’t be as accurate."

d100,Entry

1,"When your players awake in the morning after a restless night of camping, they discover footprints all around them in the dirt. Their backpacks have been looked through, but nothing has been stolen. This happens a few more nights in a row."
2,Someone notices eyes glittering in the dark at them. Anyone with darkvision can make out an unidentifiable shape. When light is shone towards them there is nothing there.
3,"You find a corpse with it’s eyes and mouth filled with dirt, still grasping the axe that’s embedded in the nearest tree."
4,"You find a massive circle of felled trees, in the center of which is a malnourished and wild-eyed greataxe wielding orc, yelling about fending off an endless hoard of regrowing enemies."
5,A deep fog rolls in faster and thicker than one would think is natural. All rolls related to navigation or investigation based on the terrain have disadvantage.
6,"The party is set upon by a group of bandits, ferociously attacking them with abandon. Suspiciously, they do not yell or even speak. DC 10 to notice their mouths have been sewn shut and their eyes look wild with panic, as if their actions are not their own."
7,"A lone child that refuses to talk but will hold one of the adventures hands, and theirs alone (normally while sucking her thumb). If the child feels threatened, she will run away from the party and they won’t be able to find her again. There are no tracks. (Optional: If they look after her for a night, she will leave them a gift.)"
8,"A dog with a fancy collar appears to lead the party to an area of disturbed dirt and begins to dig it up. Upon closer inspection the party finds the body of a small girl holding a leash that looks quiet similar to the dogs collar. When they turn to examine the dog, he is nowhere to be found."
9,Cats appear to be watching the party from the trees. Dozens upon dozens of them. Whenever a member of the party approaches them they run away and can’t be found (may serve as lookouts for a darker force).
10,"While camped for the night, the party’s extinguished campfire relights to a full blaze. The second the party member on watch looks at the fire, it extinguishes completely. The only sign that the mysterious fire ever existed is a faint smell of burning twigs."
11,"Deep in the forest, approaching dusk, the party finds a logging camp. Several small cabins and a mill. Smoke curls lazily up from one or two of the chimneys. There is nobody in the camp. There are plates of food on tables, still warm. Clothes on a washing line are still damp. Only the doors into the mill are locked. As night falls, a fierce storm begins to build, and from the mill the saws can be heard rasping back and forth, though they don’t sound quite right…"
12,"The party finds a scraggly, disheveled child apparently lost in the forest. It asks the party for help, should the party agree, they come under the effects of a curse until they defeat the child (Actually a restless Evil) who flees, attempting to lead them into a hazard deeper in the forest."
13,"Small dolls sit in a tree the players pass by. They are wearing crude clothes, and don sticks of specific lengths. Poor perception rolls feel anonymous sets of eyes gazing at you, while good perception rolls can discover them. These dolls, if ignored, will appear again in a different tree a few feet up, requiring lower rolls as they subtly make themselves more obvious. Upon the first investigation, you find that the dolls are poorly stitched together, with leaves still poking out of the burlap fabric, and expressionless faces with small stones as eyes. However, with each successive perception roll as the party walks away, the dolls become slightly more realistic. On additional rolls their rock-eyes appear to follow you (Mona Lisa style), their skin becomes taut and leathery, and their clothes become more realistic. Repeat as necessary, with the players unable to leave a small section of the forest (due to magical barriers, or because walking straight forward keeps leading them back to the same spots.) Eventually, all of the dolls should clearly resemble everyone in the party. It is important that the dolls never appear to move on their own, and in every way act as though an inanimate object would. They can be destroyed, ripped, held, carried, etc. There should also be at least 4 separate perception checks on the dolls IMO. It really draws the frustration out, and that is an expression of fear. The final perception check on the dolls will have the dolls be very hard to find, except by one person, who you can choose beforehand. No matter how well other party members roll, the person you choose will feel a tingling on the back of their neck, and turn around to find the dolls in a high branch. They are nearly perfect mimics of the party, and are standing around the doll that looks like the person who discovered them, whose doll has a thick piece of string around their neck. The person feels paralyzed as the can only just watch due to fear, as time slows around them. The doll-party gazes directly into the player characters real eyes, and gently… pushes. For extra effect, have a pencil ready to snap upon this moment. Sometimes the cheesy sound effect speaks volumes more than words. The party will usually react at this point, let them destroy the dolls. It’s cathartic. If you want to continue the fear though, every one in a while later on, let them see a flicker of movement out of the corner of their eyes. Bonus points if you pick a grunge or mistake to build this off of. Like if a cleric forgets to heal a fighter and the fighter calls, have one of them be the one that pushes the other off, as though the cleric purposely didn’t heal, or the fighter was trying to get revenge. If the party has a rogue, have their doll slip a stick in the back of the hanged on. There’s a ton of customization you can do, and if done well, you can seed a lot of discord between two player characters and build their relationship to be really dynamic. Happy Creepy Crawlies."
14,"After spending more and more time in the forest, the players start to notice the trees have grown faces. It’s unknown if this is just them going crazy, or if it’s real."
15,"As the party sets down for camp they hear a muttering in the shrubs and then creeping out from it they behold a Gibbering Mouther, each eye and mouth seemingly drawn from a different creature, without repetition. Just before their skin and brains begin to itch, each party member realizes they do not recognize any of their kind yet among its monstrous morphology…"
16,"As the night lengthens, from the shadows surrounding the campfire, come the light chiming sounds of children’s laughter. The laughter gets louder as the flames fall to coals."
17,The wood you gathered for the night is not enough to keep the flames high all night and the sounds are deeper from the dark woods.
18,"A sweet glade, dappled with sunlight and shadows provide a relief from the previous heat and humidity. A gentle brook flows along one edge and gurgled merrily. Several fruit trees sit in the center and lay heavily with ripe fruits. Flowers fragrant the air and a gentle breeze cool the glen, sweetening the air and cooling the weary traveler. An old body hangs from a limb of the tree, but upon inspection it appears obvious they could have stood and not strangled."
19,"You come across an alter, freshly used and dripping with blood. Meat has been portioned and set out for something."
20,"An open clearing shows the remains of several bodies arranged in a glyph like patter. Due to dismemberment and missing pieces you are not sure how many bodies were used. As you review the scene, the trail behind you vanishes and leaves naught but deep and ancient thorn bushes, redolent with the faint reek of decaying flesh."
21,A medium sized hut made of gingerbread and various pieces of candy. A kindly old woman asks you in for dinner.
22,"A pile of shit with human clothes, hair and bones in."
23,"The party find a clearing with an odd nature alter in the center. While they are distracted, the trees around them move closer. If they are distracted for long enough, the trees form a complete wall. The trees do not attack; they only defend themselves if attacked."
24,"There is a tree with deep scratches in it, as if it has been attacked by a dagger. Upon inspection, the player discovers old, dried blood embedded in the bark and writing in a deep red color that says ‘Find me, help me’ (illusory script). As the party continues they see more trees of a similar nature, and eventually find a crazed gnome who is determined to eat party members in order to restore his youth."
25,"The path opens into a clearing. Near the center is a unicorn lying down on its side. It looks serene and peaceful. The clearing is bright and quiet. Almost silent but for distant birdsong. If the party approach they realize it is dying. Its throat is torn open by some powerful beast and the wound looks infected or poisoned. The edges of the clearing are creeping in, going brown or fungus laden and choked with weeds and branches, which seem to close in whenever no one is looking in that direction. The unicorn is probably (?) past any help the party can give but may last an hour. Left to its own devices, the clearing will close in maybe 20 minutes."
26,The trees appear to be leaning closer together and are a different shade of green to normal trees. As a breeze blows they seem to be whispering to each other wisha…wisha…wisha
27,"The undergrowth is thick confining you to a narrow path. It switched sharply left then right…. to a dead end. Turning back it is a dead end that way. The only way forward is to hack through the lower branches and scrub. As the players do, the cut stems ooze blood. If burned instead the wet plants hiss and whistle as they burn sounding like tortured screams."
28,"You begin to notice that everything looks familiar. Slowly it dawns on you that the trees are all identical, right down to that twig that snapped off when it caught on you backpack."
29,A family of forest giants has caught the scent of the party while hunting. They’re catching up.
30,"Disembodied screams echo around you. Ghosts of the past? Or maybe it’s Jim the halfling rogue, trying to scare off tourists so he can start a coalmine?"
31,In the distance you see a light. When you get closer you see a lamp hanging from a tree swinging in the wind. It is full of oil but there are no signs of whoever put the lamp there.
32,"You find humanoid skeletons tied together to form the rough shape of a horse. If you use speak with dead on it, it only screams."
33,"You suddenly realize that all the noise in the forest is gone. As if silence had been cast but you can still talk and make noise as normal. Suddenly the forest is filled with howls, screeches, and buzzing so loud it deafens the party. When the party can hear again the forest is back to normal."
34,You come across a cottage in the woods belonging to a friendly woodsman and his wife. They provide food and shelter for the night. When the party awakes they are in the burned down ruins of a cottage with the skeletal remains of the farmer and his wife reaching desperately for the party.
35,A hooded figure sits on a stump. He does not respond to anything. If you attack or touch the figure they collapse into a swarm of spiders.
36,A parrot is found on a branch repeating the words ‘Gods what is that?!’
37,The party finds a wanted poster tacked to a tree with a group shot of the party with a red X marked through two of the party members faces. The party does not remember posing for this picture nor know why they would be wanted.
38,You come upon a dry riverbed. From the trees lining the banks dangle a hundred mutilated corpses.
39,"Two children play fight with sticks, laughing and taunting each other. When they notice the party watching, they’ll happily put on a show. That’s when the other children emerge from the trees, only they aren’t playing and they’ve got more than just sticks and stones."
40,A strangely inviting cave comes in to view. Surely it’s some kind of den and we shouldn’t go in but I just… cant…. help it.
41,From deep within the forest loud clicking and chattering noises of various pitches and tempo can be heard. Upon inspection a small city raiding party dressed in armor have been brutally mutilated with heads twisted round and limbs ripped off. The same clicking noise starts again and gets closer and louder. When it seems like the creature is on top of them it suddenly stops and does not reappear.
42,It has been at least 24 hours since sunset and it has yet to come back up. What’s worse is that all the forest chatter from insects and wildlife has trickled nearly to a standstill save for one slow but consistent crunching that has been following at a distance for hours now. Are the stars even moving anymore?
43,"Early in the day the party passes underneath a suit of armor suspended in the trees, branches occupying the inside of the suit as if they had squeezed out the body that occupied it before. Branches sprout from the facemask wildly, limbs protrude from the leg and armholes, and the entire chest piece is nearly bursting from the volume of foliage it contains."
44,"Just when its time to make camp for the night yet again within the damp cold forest, the party comes across an old house sitting unoccupied in a small clearing. They seek comfort in the house, building a fire in the hearth and drinking some old booze left by previous tenants. Keeping good watch, they peer out the windows frequently. Maybe it’s just the old wine but are the trees…. getting closer?"
45,"A few chickens are pecking at the dirt in the middle of the trail. When you come upon them, you spook them, and they trot off into the forest a few meters. They resume pecking; but little does anyone know that they’ve begun to peck seeds that have the effect of the enlarge spell. Treat an enlarged chicken as an allosaurus and let the fun begin."
46,"Glowing eyes stare out of a knothole in an old and gnarled tree. When the players notice it watching, the thing scampers deeper into the tree. If they investigate the knothole they’ll find it goes deep, deeper than the tree itself. At the bottom of the hole something glitters. Gold? Many more glowing eyes stare up around it."
47,"A corpse sways in the branches of a lonely willow by a stream, dangling from a noose. The corpse is grinning, and dancing a slow, merry jig."
48,"Something howls in the distance. Another something responds. Not wolves. The howls are too ragged, sound too much like words."
49,"A little twig-and-twine doll is pinned to a branch up ahead. Another just like it can be seen just off the path, and another beyond that one. Even in the depths of the woods you’ll be protected so long as you follow them. Your safety once you arrive where they’re leading you is less guaranteed. A polite invitation has been extended. It won’t come again."
50,"Moaning can be heard from a bush. Within is a hunter, near-death, near incoherent from fear. No mere animal could have inflicted the wounds he bears. They’re too precise, suggestive of strange symbols."
51,The trees in this part of the forest are all wrong. They’re growing in neat rows; they sway though there is no wind. Strange fruits swell in their boughs. You’ve stumbled into an orchard. Were those stones you stepped over a ways back someone’s fence?
52,"A boar bursts out of the undergrowth; foaming spittle flecks its tusks. It charges, eyes bloodshot, but makes no move to defend itself. All its attacks seem half-hearted. What drove this beast to seek death so?"
53,"Cloying mist drifts into the region. You can barely see five paces ahead of you. Vague, bulbous forms can be seen protruding from the trees as you pass. Fungus. This isn’t mist, it’s spores."
54,"A fire shines through the trunks a little ways from you. Around it are adventurers, like you, camping for the night. None of them speak the same languages as you. The forest has them spooked, paranoid. They’ll welcome familiar company at first, but any number of things you do could set them off."
55,"A pond in a clearing, clean and still. No animal drinks from it, no insects buzz above it. No monsters will approach here beyond the tree line. Is it safe for you to stay here?"
56,The forest path is narrow and overgrown. Looking down the tunnel-like trail gives you vertigo and puts you off balance. Shadows appear to move and you feel like you’re just going in circles.
57,The forest itself seems to be against your presence. Roots seem to spring up to trip you and branches swat at you when moved out of the way. The canopy closes around you shutting out the sunlight.
58,"The players hear footsteps echoing theirs, slightly behind, but the path is empty. Anything they call out is repeated back with missing syllables, as if the voice is in pain."
59,"A child’s laughter is heard off of the path, along with a flicker of light, which keeps appearing further away if the party follows. It leads them to the body of an elven boy with an arrow in his back."
60,"One member of the party hears the creaking of the trees and sounds of the forest suddenly stop, then a voice right behind them whispers their name on a hoarse voice, but there is no one there. None of the others notice anything different."
61,"The players hear the sounds of cries and screams from soldiers and the guttural cries of a nightmarish creature echo through the forest. The last one goes quiet before they reach them. If they choose to search, they find scattered around the ground the weather-worn skeletal remains of 16 soldiers from a long-dead empire known for it’s brutal methods, some of which are found ripped apart apparently trying to flee."
62,"The players feel as though something is watching them, but can’t see anything in the darkness. If they move more than 30ft in any direction they hear rustling following, but no matter how much they search cannot find anything."
63,"A dead character from one of the character’s past stands amongst the trees, with the appearance and wounds they had when they died. Only one person can see them. The character doesn’t move, but silently watches the player. Any attacks go through them without causing damage. They dissolve into a smoke-like darkness after 1d6 minutes."
64,"The sound of whispering is heard behind a bush. When it is pulled back or someone moves behind it, the whispering stops abruptly and a darkened feather falls slowly to the ground."
65,"A group of little girls are tied to the trees just off of the path, crying quietly. If the party goes to rescue them, they fight being rescued and attempt to escape and retie themselves to the trees, warning that ‘the Grogleman’ will come for them and their families too if they return home."
66,"A group of giants sit motionless around a giant chessboard, eyes intent on the pieces. Closer examination reveals the three are corpses; fungi grow from their eyelids and out of their hair, and the bodies slump and collapse if touched."
67,"The ground on both sides of the trail seems odd; upon closer examination, it is absolutely swarming with termites, covering the whole ground like a wave. If the party steps off the trail, the insects scatter from the party’s feet, leaving strange, momentary footprints in the ground."
68,"Prayers cannot be uttered aloud in the forest; spells can be cast as normal, but any verbal component comes out as a rattling hiss."
69,"A thick fog hovers over the ground, reaching up about two feet (to the chests of any halflings in the party, to the knees of humans). Anyone putting their heads in the fog (bending down to pick something up, etc.) hears muffled screams and far-off voices begging for their lives."
70,Each person awakes to find a large meat hook carefully placed along on their bedrolls over their stomachs.
71,"In the periphery of the party’s vision, the trees that they pass seem to take on the image of a grim army, marching next to the party. When faced directly, the trees seem rather normal. The whole forest smells like a battlefield."
72,"Every time anyone lights a fire in the forest, there is a sudden hissing and smoking from the ground for twenty feet around the sparks. Little red lines appear like veins in the earth before fading to blackness."
73,"A monkey in a Jester’s costume comes swinging through the trees, hooting and screeching. If the adventurers catch the monkey, they find a bloody knife stuck in its belt. The monkey stares at them all with a baleful expression."
74,"Crows are screaming at each other as the party enters the woods. Increasingly, the screams sound like words, demanding blood."
75,"The hedge on the side of the trail has strange burn marks in it, almost exactly in the shape of men."
76,"A fox with a bloodied and broken leg comes limping up the path to the party and will pass by it if it can. If anyone speaks to it, the fox changes form into an old druidic woman, who mumbles about the forest being unsalvageable."
77,"As the party walks into the forest, they are greeted by an adventuring group coming the opposite direction. They chat for a little bit, explaining they found the woods too dangerous and are making their way back to whatever town the party has just come from. A little farther into the woods, the party finds the corpses of the same adventuring group, gathered around the sputtering embers of a fire…"
78,"A bucket has been nailed to a tree, with a crude sign saying ‘Donations’ hanging under it. The bucket is half-filled with fingers and toes in varying levels of freshness."
79,"A small, neat signboard reads, ‘Please remain on the path.’ The neatness is somewhat marred by the corpses strewn below the sign."
80,"Someone has sharpened the branches around the trail in the forest, so that the trail is surrounded by sharp points."
81,"The party finds themselves staring at a strange tableaux- the corpse of a squirrel is placed next to an acorn, followed by (in order) the corpse of a cat, a dog, a wolf, and a bear. Behind the bear are strange scuffmarks in the dirt, like there was another corpse behind it, this one in the shape of something human…"
82,"As the party walks through the forest, a strange figure suddenly drops from the trees in front of them- upon inspection, it is an effigy in the rough shape of a man, made of wooden boughs and leaves. This happens twice more as they walk. The fourth time, the figure drops down again, but anyone going to clear it away finds that it is actually the corpse of a man this time, with branches lashed to his limbs and a grisly smile on his face…"
83,"A cold mist creeps into the surrounding area, players who breathe it will be asked to make a roll (perception, nature, etc.) but they’re making a constitution save with whatever modifier from the false roll. Anyone who rolls above a set DC inhales the mist and is subject to strange illusions."
84,A hanged man rests on a lone tree. His pockets lined with petty change and a note that appears to be an apology letter to his family.
85,For an hour of travel there’s no sound other than the party.
86,A section of the forest has been frosted over in what appears to be a permanent winter. The center appears to have an unnatural cave of rocks that don’t match anything of the surrounding geological features. Inside features a drop that appears to be without end.
87,"A small portal opens up about 15 ft. above the party, expelling a blood lusted demon to the ground below. It bounces, stunned momentarily before it acquires a new target."
88,"A large head-sized knot in a tree resembles a human face. Wait! The eyes are real: wide, staring, terrified eyes! They look at you as you approach, flicking to each person that talks. But they cannot blink (so cannot communicate in that way), but constantly weep a watery sap."
89,"A large open area. The dirt seems fresher than the rest, no grass growing on the surface. The trees around the edge of the grove are burnt. In the middle sits (1d4) huge skulls, each at least 5 times the height of an average human. These skulls have gashes and claw marks in them, as well as huge spiraling or pointed horns. Scratched into the largest one is ‘entrance’ in infernal. If the player puts their ear to the ground and listens, they can faintly hear a low rumble that unnerves them to their very core and they don’t know why. Digging downwards could potentially reveal a connection between the material plain and one of the evil-aligned outer plains."
90,"The first character to awaken sees a grotesquely exaggerated face hovering inches from their own, glowing weakly with an internal light. An ear-to-ear grin splits the face, revealing a maw with three rows of serrated teeth. When the character blinks, the face disappears. It never appears again."
91,"The party comes across perfectly circle clearing. It’s barren waste, nothing ever grows there. Any flora the party might bring with them instantly wilts as it crosses the border. No animal, even as faithful as ranger’s companions, can be forced to cross into that circle. If the party decides to spend a night there, they will wake up outside the circle, with all their things scattered across the outer rim of the clearing. If they do it on the night of winter solstice, they will wake up in Avernus instead."
92,"The trees suddenly grow until the sun is blocked out and a magical darkness is cast from somewhere, and whenever the players talk, they hear their words repeated to them in their voice, but can’t tell where it’s coming from."
93,"The players slowly realize that they are on a loop in the forest. Every night they make camp, then wake up with supplies returned and make the exact same journey again. The players must find the source of this curse and free themselves."
94,"While the party makes camp, someone notices that there is an additional person around the fire. How did no one notice? Why does it smell like rotten meat? And why is it looking at the barbarian like that?"
95,"In a less dense part of the forest, where moonlight pours through, the party witnesses a strange hulking creature (Mothman) perched on a tall tree. Its giant red eyes watch the party for a moment, before the creature flies away. The party sees the creature a few more times before coming to a large bridge built over a dangerous river. The creature appears one more time over head, just as the bridge collapses."
96,"After camping in the woods the party awakens to find the trees around them whipping and lashing as if buffeted by strong winds, though the party feels not even a faint breeze. Upon closer inspection, the party notices in mounting horror that the shadows cast by the trees are in the shape of human beings writhing in silent agony."
97,"The party comes across a 50ft circle of pitch-black darkness, with no logical reason as to its existence. Any players that cannot see when in such conditions hear whispers and chattering while in this area, and take 1d6 slashing damage for every round spent there. Any players that can see in such conditions (ex. darkvision) will not suffer any of these effects, and will see that nothing is attacking the others, but rather the wounds are manifesting onto them."
98,"You see corpses pinned to the sharpened boughs and branches of the tress around you, wood puncturing through their throats and sternums. The mottled moonlight filtering through the slowly swaying leaves gives them an eerie sense of motion. A sudden scampering and swish of branches punches through the soft rustling of the trees. Wherever you turn, the sound seems to be coming from behind you, getting closer and closer till you feel a hot, wet breath on the back of your neck. You swing around to confront the horror and see nothing but the corpses in the canopy, leering down at you like demonic piñatas."
99,"The party stumbles upon a clearing, with a post stamped into the ground. A message scrawled in Primordial reads about a treasure found in the hidden home of squirrels. With a few investigation checks, the party finds an odd tree. Around the back of the tree is a poorly hidden, though hidden, door. The door has no lock on it, but is not open; it has a feeling as though it is stuck. It can be forced open, or pried open, or cut open with fairly decent resistance. Inside is a staircase leading downward, lit by candles embedded in the tree that don’t seem like they’re burning the tree, though they are quite bright. After a 5-minute descent, the staircase ends in what appears to be a basement. The ceilings drip, and the room is damp and warm. (You can also narrate that the stairs are slippery, and have your players roll athletics not to slip). A decent perception roll can see that the floor and ceiling leak the warm water, without much of a source, while a really good perception check will notice that the color of the environment has become darker, and has a reddish tinge. Otherwise, there appears to be a library or study (whichever is easier for you to narrate.) There are no loose papers or pens and all of the books appear to be locked up, so that they cannot be taken out. A chest in the back can be found, a hair too conspicuously. Upon opening it, there is nothing inside but a pit, that smells of vomit and acid. With that, the room begins to shrink, slowly. The party should discover that they’re in the mouth of a giant mimic, who is swallowing them. Upon escaping, the entire tree uproots itself, spits and snarls at the players, and runs away. Best described if you can drop hints about descending the gullet of a beast, such as a hot draft, or distant gurgling."
100,"The party makes camp, and partway through the night, someone on watch starts to get an off feeling. Depending on perception rolls, they may or may not see the eyes watching from up in the trees, though they disappear just after being noticed. Additionally, they may hear the sound of leathery wings gliding through the air above them. Finally, after their defenses being lightly probed/tested, a creature attacks. (IIRC)I used a giant flying chupacabra from PF, but whatever works for you. The creature goes down relatively easily, but as it is struck down, it lets out a piercing scream. As quiet settles, the party hears answering cries from deeper in the woods."

d100,Entry

1,"An evil rune, such as the symbol of a demon lord or archdevil, appears on your face."
2,Your eyes become a glossy black.
3,Demonic-looking horns sprout from your forehead.
4,"You become wizened and hideous, looking almost like a mummified corpse."
5,"You lose all facial features, your former face being covered with smooth skin."
6,You gain a forked tongue.
7,You lose your nose and instead gain slit-like nostrils.
8,"You become almost skeletal, with white skin, no hair, and a gaunt stature."
9,Your shadow seems darker and bigger than before. Sometimes it moves out of sync with your body.
10,"You appear superficially very attractive, but some people are revolted by you (sort of like psychopath sense)."
11,Your teeth become sharp points.
12,"Your nails grow longer and longer, and are impossible to cut."
13,A small black spot appears somewhere on your body and grows.
14,Your heart is turned to stone and you are unable to feel emotion.
15,You are unable to withstand direct sunlight.
16,"You shed your skin all at once like a reptile and are vulnerable for a short period afterwards (alternatively, you build a cocoon and transform into... something else)."
17,"You have an affinity with a type of bug like a cockroach, which you may eat, play with, see often, or which may emerge from your bodily orifices."
18,Animals instinctively know you are evil/wrong.
19,Plants that you touch wither and rot.
20,"Your eyes grow to be more bulbous, similar to a fish."
21,One of your hands losses all bones and shifts into a writhing mass of tentacles.
22,"You begin to develop patches of only black scales that are contantly itchy. When scratched off, more grow to take their place."
23,"Your teeth shift in your mouth to sit at odd angles. This doesn't impact your ability to talk or eat, but it does five you a crooked smile."
24,"You begin to sweat a thin, clear grease. No matter how much you bathe you cannot get it off."
25,Two new eyes grow in the palms of your hands. You cannot see out of them and they seem to move on their own freewill.
26,"Your spine arches outwards, giving you a severe hunchback. Looking closer reveals small spines protruding from your skin down your back."
27,The palms of your hands are stained a deep red that is not able to be washed off.
28,Your skin becomes cold and rubbery to the touch.
29,"Blood will occasionally leak out of various spots on your head (eyes, ears, nose, mouth). It is not enough to hurt you, but it is visible to others."
30,"Your body odor becomes that of brimstone, rotting fish, or rotting flesh."
31,Your body temperature is always burning hot or freezing cold.
32,"Your eye pupils change (cat eyes, frog eyes, goat eyes, multiple pupils, no pupils, etc.)."
33,Your eyes glow with a hellish light.
34,Your eyes change to empty sockets filled with absolute darkness or hellish light.
35,"You grow one or multiple extra eyes (extra set, third eye, randomly placed eye)."
36,You gain a halo of fire or hellish light.
37,"Your skin color changes to something unnatural for your race (green, milk white, obsidian black, red, etc.)."
38,Your skin changes to scales (if you didn't have scales before).
39,Your skin stretches and bulges as if there is something moving beneath it.
40,"Your teeth become shark-like, with extra rows of teeth."
41,There is a literal gaping hole in your chest where your heart used to be.
42,"The touch of blessed, divine, or sacred objects burn you and leave actual burn marks."
43,"Your veins become visible through your skin; they might appear black, blue, green, red, or glowing."
44,Your reflection shows a monster.
45,Your shadow is shaped like that of a monster.
46,"Your fingers lose their bones, especially where you held the Evil Object. They still move just fine and may even gain some flexibility."
47,Your pupils appear to be constantly melting off your face in a jelly-like trail of black slime.
48,Your mouth moves to your clavicle overnight and expands across the entire front of your throat as though your throat has been slit.
49,You no longer gain sustenance from food or recuperate from rest. You begin to lose 1 permanent HP per day until the problem is solved or curse is lifted. Becoming an undead or aberration or finding alternative sources of nourishment may help you.
50,"When breathing out in cold weather, you exhale black smoke instead of white breath."
51,"You have no shadow. Even the natural shading of your body is gone, giving you an uncanny valley kind of appearance."
52,"Your blood loses all colour, your complexion is now unnaturally pale and ashy."
53,Strange runes in a language foreign to you appear on random spots on your body. They appear to be trying to tell you somethig but you cannot descipher them.
54,"Shadows cling to your body, and aren't as easily dispelled by light."
55,"Anomalous orifices begin appearing on your body, such as mouths, eye sockets, etc."
56,"A tragedy/comedy masks appears over your face, which bleeds a black liquid from its openings."
57,"Your eyes are now tinted with a dull black, as if dampened. When you cry, it's almost as if the tears share the same color as your original eyes."
58,Wisps of black smoke sift through the soles of your shoes whenever you walk.
59,"Whenever you voice echoes, it lasts for much longer than it normally should."
60,"Acts of humanity and decency now stain you. Tears apply permanent defects to your skin. Mercy and sparing aches your hand, and dimples become gnarly and wrinkled."
61,"Your presence dampens the weave around you, snuffing out simple cantrip effects such as dancing lights, prestidigitation, and mending."
62,You hear the pulses of those near you. The heavy thuds of their hearts beat like drums drowning out ambient sounds.
63,A loud crash shakes the establishment. It appears lightning struck the rooftop. This is the third time this week it’s happened while you were out and about.
64,Your wrists can rotate all the way around.
65,You slowly stop needing to move your mouth to talk.
66,"Amalgamation. You look like several parts from different creatures were spiced, stitched, or grown together to from one creature."
67,Disproportional limbs. Ex: one overly large arm or one overly small leg.
68,Strange bulbous pods growing on your skin. They seem to pulsate with your heart beat.
69,"When cut, you bleed black or green ichor instead of blood."
70,"When your skin gets damaged, it reveals a different type of creature underneath. This other creature appears to be wearing your skin like a disguise."
71,Everybody who sees your eyes will believe that you are looking directly at them. (like it is with the mona lisa).
72,Your skin turns clean and pure white. It's hard to the touch and slightly cold.
73,An eye appears on the back of your neck. It's a bright acidic greenish yellow color.
74,"A strange symbol appears in the middle of the chest of whatever clothing you wear. If you put a coat over it, the symbol fades in on the surface of the coat over the course of a few minutes. If you take the coat off, it fades and is back on the shirt underneath again. When you strip naked, it fades in as a tattoo."
75,"Your hair becomes distressed and wirey no matter how much you tend to it, creating a knotted nest of bristly strands."
76,Your saliva takes on an unnatural hue and can now be used as a weak venom.
77,"You gain a wheezing, hacking cough that eventually leads to strange objects and fluids being coughed up (I.e. tetromas, small statues and smoothed rocks, black sludge)."
78,"You weep black, oily tears."
79,"Strange shapes begin to form beneath your skin, spelling out words as you run your fingers over them. The words urge you to commit dreadful acts."
80,A hornet's nest forms within your body. The hornets come and go through holes at your collar bones. They are not hostile to you.
81,"While your appearance does not change, it becomes increasingly difficult for others to remember who you are. Over time, even your closest friends and family lose the ability to recognize or remember you."
82,Your fingernails shed and regrow constantly. The process is neither clean nor painless.
83,"You develop a chronic irritation, such as itchy eyes, sore limbs/joints, or a mild rash. Careful observers will notice a very subtle movement at the location, akin to a worm moving under the surface."
84,"Your gait shifts as you move, most times in small increments similar to carrying a heavy object in a hand or dragging with a leg, but sometimes the shift is like some large entity actively pushing/pulling against you."
85,"Your body's symmetry is thrown askew. One arm is thicker, an eye is larger, a leg is now 1-2 inches longer/shorter, etc. This change affects 1d3 paired body parts or organs."
86,"A natural aura of darkness follows you. People always (mysteriously) find themselves standing in your shadow, a cloud passes over the sun/moon, or another person/object blocks the nearest light source when you get close."
87,"Your hair becomes overgrown and filthy quickly, and clumps come out effortlessly, but your hair never thins."
88,"You regularly regurgitate wads of hair, teeth, and toenail."
89,When others look at their reflection in your eyes they see the moment of their own death.
90,"When you speak a second lower voice comes from your throat repeating the same words but in a croaking, droning melody."
91,"You seemingly aren't affected by wind. Your hair and clothes do not move in light winds, but you will still be affected by severe weather. (Alternatively, you and anything you're wearing are always blowing in wind)."
92,"You no longer make noise breathing, coughing, sneezing, from your pulse, yawning, or from objects hitting you. You still make noise walking and verbally."
93,"You're facial features become more severe. Your jaw becomes more angular and long, you cheekbones become abnormally large, your forehead protrudes like a neanderthal, and your nose grows larger. Additionally, your fingers and toes grow longer."
94,"Your skin becomes slightly translucent, so your muscle tissue is visible. Optionally, your muscles are also clear, so you can see your bones."
95,"When you wake up from sleeping/trance etc. Your mouth is sewn shut, and your jaw is unable to open. The wire holding your mouth shut is durable, and takes 2d4 minutes to cut. Whenever you re-awaken, this happens again."
96,"The skin directly above your veins turns dark purple, perfectly tracing them. Your veins also protrude more. When you bleed, the veins in that area become black."
97,"You no longer need to blink nor close your eyes when you sleep. (You still have the awareness when sleeping that you would if your eyes were closed, though.) Your eyes become incredibly bloodshot and get worse every hour after you awaken."
98,"Your skin looks red and irritated, and you are hot to the touch. Any tears or sweat evaporates in a few seconds. When your blood is spilt, it appears to be boiling. The area around wounds that bleed blisters."
99,"Your skin becomes shiny, smooth, and is hard to the touch. When you are damaged, your skin cracks like ceramic. It still heals at its normal rate, but the materials needed to heal you without magic change. Your skin has permanent scratches unless healed magically."
100,Your eye lashes turn into spider legs. They seem to move with a mind of their own. When one is pulled out it grows back in 2d4 hours.

d100,Entry

1,"A painting of the previous owners of the house. If you look at it out of the corner of your eye, you could swear that you saw them move."
2,"Old, rusted knife. Can be used a weapon. If it comes in contact with food, the food begins to rot."
3,"A mirror in the master bedroom that doesn't show your reflection, but the reflection of your previous life."
4,A cupboard that shakes if touched.
5,"A display case, full of shattered china."
6,"The handrails on the stairs look like clean wood, but if you touch them you feel something wet and sticky. Looking at your hands you see they are covered in blood."
7,"A mask that gives you tips in battle (+2 to attack rolls), but constantly rattles, making it terrible for stealth."
8,"A skeletal hand that follows you around, but only moves when your back is turned. You hear a strange skittering sound and might see movement out of the corner of your eye."
9,"A taxidermied pet cat in a curled up and napping position. But when you turn your back on it, it leaps at you."
10,"A tin for sweets/candy sits on a coffee stand. The hand of the last person to open the tin lays inside, bloody and nibbled on."
11,"The shutters are loose and bang against the window frame as the wind blows outside. Every time someone gets near to try and secure them, they bang shut and lock themselves, only to start flapping in the wind again as soon as that same person tries to walk away."
12,"A small drop of blood moves across the floor leaving behind a thin red line. No matter how far the small drop moves it never runs out of blood to leave behind. The small blood drop leads the party room to room, floor to floor."
13,"In random locations throughout the house you stumble across a recently lit cigar, sitting in an ash try, the corner of a mantle or an edge of a table."
14,"Musty moldy books on a broken shelf, but one is curiously untouched by age and mold."
15,Rotting dolls in a trunk. Touching them does 1d4 necrotic damage. Throwing them at people is mean.
16,A dress stand that whispers secrets of long lost owners. Where did she bury her gold?
17,"Curious stains on the kitchen floor and a bin full of bones. Don't move the bones... Oh, hello animated skeleton."
18,"A trapdoor that leads nowhere, just a brick wall."
19,Broken floorboards and a dusty spike trap that is half visible through them.
20,Strange collection of tiny colored glass bottles full of different liquids. One that makes you larger...
21,Cracked ceramic bowl of little bits of leather. They don't taste good.
22,Dog bones by a dusty bowl on the floor.
23,"Rotting curtains that rustle and move although there is no wind. Yeah, you should probably check behind them."
24,Iron cage with a big pile of chain next to it on the floor.
25,Nineteen knives stuck in the wall in a smiley face.
26,An old warlock spellbook that contains a random 2nd level warlock spell.
27,A painting of what looks like your adevturing party but with different Noble clothes one. (One of you are missing from the painting)
28,A message written in blood on the walls.
29,A pentagram drawn in chalk or blood with half melted candles at the points of the star.
30,Creepy spiderwebs everywhere.
31,"A diary of someone. It starts out fairly normal, but slowly descends into madness."
32,A broken brick wall. There is a skeleton inside the wall with lots of bloody scratches on the inside of the walls.
33,A door that opens into inky darkness.
34,A room with a collection of jars of strange creatures.
35,Several jars full of various herbs and spices. Everything seasoned with them tastes of dust and ashes.
36,"Bottles full of well-aged alcoholic drink. Some of them, anyways. A few of them are poison, and a few of them are vinegar, but the ones that are good to drink are excellently aged. Also, don't drink the one labelled 'ectoplasm'."
37,"A strange box. It's full of small insects, which flee when disturbed."
38,"A journal. Upon opening, it starts with the sentence: The adventurer opened the journal. Then it proceeds to give an gruesome account of how a creature descends from the ceiling and rends the flesh from the adventurer’s bones. You start to feel as if something is watching you... from the ceiling..."
39,"A book that when opened, the creature holding it starts hearing incessant whispering coming from it, even after they put it down. It becomes inaudible after a certain distance, but the effect is always there. If the creature returns in range of the book at any time, the whispering can be heard again."
40,"A large painting of a wall safe that conceals an alcove that contains the upper body of a corpse, poised as if for a portrait."
41,"A dusty maid's/butler's uniform haunted by the ghost of a dead servant. If worn, it will try to gently guide the wearer to its unburied body. If it is then given a proper burial with an appropriate marker, the garment will then lead the wearer to where the person stowed some treasure in life. The spirit that possesses the uniform is generally harmless, but will resort to violence if the wearer attempts to take off the garment before finding the body."
42,A mirror which reflects the back of the person that looks into it.
43,"A divan that rams into the calves of a party member, knocking them down into a sitting position. It then rushes out of the room at an extremely fast pace, with the unfortunate still on board."
44,"A creaky door that is always cracked open. It closes and even locks with a satisfying click, but audibly creaks open again when no one is looking at it."
45,A four-poster bed with a perfectly preserved corpse under the covers.
46,A child's toy placed directly under a very heavy chandelier...
47,A precarious stack of chairs.
48,"A wing-backed chair behind a large desk. When seated in it, one hears the voice of an old man talking right behind them, even smelling the smoke from his pipe. He doesn't seem to be addressing anyone in particular, and when one turns around, no one is there."
49,A suit of armor. Lifting the visor reveals a lever that opens a nearby secret passage.
50,"A painting of the party, minus one member."
51,A music box whose music sounds like it is coming from the next room over.
52,"A violin, playing itself."
53,"A grandfather clock that ticks backwards. If any adventurer opens its door, they see some tragedy that occurred in this room reflected in the back of the glass."
54,"A collection of skeletons from birds and other small creatures, all preserved under glass domes."
55,"An empty dress that dances alone. If a character makes an attempt to dance with dress and succeeds on a Performance check, they make out the ghostly visage of a beautiful woman inside the dress, who quietly thanks them for the dance and sheds a single tear, which turns into a diamond as it hits the ground. The dress then hangs itself up and is no longer animated. On a failure, the character sees an image of such anguish that they become frightened for one minute as the dress quickly zooms out of the room."
56,"A silver signet ring with a ram head in profile on the top. Can be used to press the family identity in a wax seal of a letter. Wearer of the ring has dreams of the house, and witnesses the deaths of each of the family members in those dreams. The wearer of the ring does not feel the need to eat or drink. However, upon taking the ring off, the wearer feels famished, like they have not eaten in a week, regardless of the duration of wearing the ring."
57,"A large metal box-like structure set into the wall of the basement. The structure is open on one side revealing a complex set of gears connected to a crank. When you turn the crank, only some gears move. One gear has been removed to stop it from working."
58,A mirror that peers into an alternate universe that shows the viewer looking back but not performing the same actions. For some of the party they don’t appear at all/ are only a small glowing orb emanating a black mist.
59,A bath with murky liquid in it. Was it just your imagination or did something inside move?
60,"A surprisingly fresh bowl of fruit. When eaten, the food reveals itself to be rotten and full of maggots."
61,A child’s bedroom with the bed meticulously made and dark stains leading to under the bed.
62,"An entire room of porcelain dolls. Nothing haunted in the room itself, but man, are they scary."
63,A small altar with a burning candle mourning the loss of someone.
64,"A sitting room that is sparsely furnished with seats and a coffee table. If the players choose to walk around the room, they will appear to trip or bang their legs on nothing, dealing 1d4-1 damage every 5 feet. If detect magic is used, it will reveal a simple illusion making the furniture appear to be several inches away from their actual position."
65,"An old wizard hat. When placed on one's head, it will cast produce water from the inside of the headband, soaking the wearer and continuing to produce water until they take it off."
66,"A pentacle that contains within it a full skeleton that has collapsed, and an additional skull next to the skeleton, trying to breach the pentacle results in the discovery that a forcefield has been brought up in outer circle. And the skulls eyes light up with a blue light."
67,"A small glass jar with what appears to be an ethereal spider inside. If opened, the jar becomes a normal jar and a Web spell is cast centered on the jar."
68,"A small ceramic jar. When opened, a hundred howling spirits fly out of the bottle, causing the room to shake, extinguishing all light sources, and sending a horrible chill down the spine of any good-aligned adventurers."
69,A room that has torches in sconces lining the walls. In the center of the room is a single candle that sheds darkness instead of light.
70,"A wall painted with a glowing runic symbol. The symbol stabilizes the house. If the symbol is ever broken, wiped, or otherwise erased away the rooms are no longer organized, such that they teleport constantly (example: you enter the kitchen from the dining room, but when you go back through the same door to reach the kitchen, instead you are in a bedroom)."
71,"Musical instruments dance around on their own, playing a melodic, eerie and cheerie tune, but no musicians are playing them."
72,"A bust of a noble that appears normal at first, but the next time you look at it bleeds from the eyes and mouth."
73,"A bloody and broken comb, with some hair still attached to it."
74,"A children's room that is in perfect condition, perfectly spotless, eerily so."
75,An old nursemaid that doesn't realize she is dead. She still performs tasks like rocking a nonexsistant baby to sleep.
76,"Floorboards that groan and creak as if someone is walking on them, but no one is."
77,"The front door continually gets knocked on, as if visitors are stopping by, but no one is ever on the other side of the door."
78,"A Teaset with filled cups, the tea's piping hot though there is no warmth or fire to be found in the entire house."
79,"Bloody meathooks over the master bedroom kingsize bed, the bed is completely clean however."
80,"A window with no way of knowing what's on the other side (one side solid wall, the other the window). You see only a haze but you'd swear there is movement in the mist."
81,A hallway with water reflections and wavy shadows on the ceiling and seaweed on the walls even though the house is nowhere near water. There are whispers that say 'She will swallow you too.' and 'All that will be left is crushing darkness.'
82,"A portrait of an immensely obese man with at least three chins, smiling smugly and with eyes half closed in pleasure. A pile of bloody bones lie against the wall immediately underneath."
83,The body of a large deformed monstrous humanoid. Rune covered metal stakes have been driven through it's skull & it's heart.
84,"A door with strange runes covering it. It is being held shut with heavy chains & a large pad lock. If anyone touches the door, something heavy slams into the opposite side of the door."
85,"A chalkboard with the world 'Help Me' scrawled on it hundreds of times. If anyone looks away & looks back at it, the board is blank."
86,"A strange black candle. When it is lit, it reveals the shadows of ghost & spiritual creatures within it's light."
87,"A dagger made of a strange black metal with blood red runes, rest on a small alter held up by skulls."
88,"A bucket containing bloody hairy mess. If anyone pulls it out, it turns out to be the skin of an entire human."
89,A crib next to a rocking chair. At some point they start rocking on their own.
90,A basement full of mist covering the floor. You think you saw something moving in the mist.
91,A fireplace. Human bones can be found among the ashes.
92,"A spice rack with labels of various poisons (hemlock, mandrake, nightshade, snake root, wolvesbane)."
93,A bottle with Spectre dust.
94,"A puppet that will animate itself once the adventurers approach it. Treat as a Tiny Goblin. Once killed, it can be controlled by the party's MU and can fly(As broom of such) and float through walls. With 10 charges, it can become invisible for 5 seconds. Each invisibility costs one charge. The puppet cannot attack, but it can mimic. Everyone besides the party members and their friends insist that a demon controls the puppet."
95,"A comfortably furnished room with a fire laid in the grate ready to be lit, doors which lock properly, and several sofas which are large enough to sleep on. Any sound produced in this room will be delayed by half a second. Talking is difficult when you hear your own voice echoed back at you. The delay increases by a second every hour somebody spends in the room, and decreases by a second every hour they're out of it. This could be used creatively to give a bonus to Sneak checks."
96,"A wasp's nest built out of an old spellbook. Disassembling and reassembling the spells has mostly destroyed them, but careful examination by a magic user reveals that they belonged to the school of Necromancy. An entire day spent carefully dissecting the nest may allow it to be used as a spellbook, granting a random 3rd level Necromancy spell. Roll Intelligence (Arcana) DC20 to decipher the spell (Identify doesn't work, as the spell isn't intact yet), plus an additional 8d20 to represent each hour working on the nest - any 1s trigger a wild magic surge for that hour. The nest contains no living wasps, and can be taken with you if enough time is dedicated to digging it out of the wall."
97,"A small animal dissection room. The walls are covered in carefully framed and preserved dissected animals - a rabbit, a crow, a cat, and many others - each one spread and pinned open with its internal organs pinned around it. On the desk is a robin in the process of being dissected, with tools neatly laid out around it. The room smells strongly of formaldehyde, and the tools don't show any signs of rust or age."
98,"A child's bedroom, with a child seemingly asleep in the bed. Closer examination reveals that the child is dead, but without any visible means of death or signs of decay. The first person to touch the child will start to receive dreams of the room, with the child standing in it looking sad. At first the child is at the opposite end of the room, but with each dream they get closer and start to reach out their hand. After seven such dreams, the child will take the character's hand in the dream, and smile. Once this happens, the child's ghost will attempt to Possess the character (see Ghost / Possession) - the child doesn't mean any ill will, just wants to be alive again. Remove Curse will end the dreams."
99,"A strange pendant. Anyone looking at it gets a foreboding sense of dread. If no one touches it, the pendant appears in other rooms. It's always in an unobtrusive location within each room. If anyone checks, the pendant is indeed missing from it's previous location."
100,"A creepy marionette puppet sitting in an armchair. When you look away or leave the room, the next time you see the armchair, the strings are cut and the puppet is missing."

d100,Entry

1,Magical Memory Deletion - Will delete unwanted or unhappy memories for a price.
2,"Magical Tattoo Shop - Get tattoos imbued with magic, either gives stat bonuses or allows the use of a once daily skill."
3,"Magical Fireworks Makers - creates fireworks that are much more impressive than normal fireworks, and twice as big."
4,Magical Teleportation. Teleport where you need to go.
5,TelEx. Teleport Express will deliver your items wherever you need overnight.
6,Magical Animal Breeder - Breeds magical animal companions for mounts or pets.
7,Dream Delvers - Allows someone to enter their dreams and create whatever they want inside.
8,"Magic Item Hunter - will find specific magic items and sell them to you for an increased cost, depending on the rarity of course."
9,Medium - A necromancer that will become possessed temporarily by the spirit of a departed loved one for a fee.
10,A wizard who casts fly on people who pay and want to fly.
11,A wizard who uses Major Image to recreate a scenario or for a play.
12,Merlo's Moving Company - uses Mage Hand and Telekinesis to move your boxes.
13,Restaurant that uses magic to create catered food for events.
14,"An 'Adjuster' - Will magically alter your appearance for a price. Can change height, teeth, skin color, eye color, etc."
15,"Soul Infuser - Infuses a soul (either one they sell, or one you happen to have laying around) into an item of your choice. I imagine it as either for instance infusing a kangaroo soul into your boots to allow you to jump better. If you pay enough you can summon the soul as an ethereal familiar."
16,Druidic Express - A high level druid who has designated stations(trees) to teleport people around for an aged oak leaf ticket.
17,"Warlocks Vaults - A high level warlock who runs special vaults. Creates your own demiplane for whatever use you want, they won’t ask questions but ask for payment."
18,High level cleric that casts commune on your behalf.
19,Fire Brigade - mages that use magic to put out fires & rescue people trapped in fires.
20,Lamplighter - mage that uses magic to light streetlamps in towns & cities.
21,Mage Hunters - mages that specialize in tracking down & capturing mages that use their powers for criminal endeavors.
22,Magical Tattoo Shop - provide magically linked tattoos that allow people to communicate telepathically.
23,"Magical Telegraph Office - Offices are located in cities & towns. Messages are sent & received by magic. If the recipient of the message isn't present in the office, Then the message is delivered by courier."
24,Sculptors - mages that use shape stone to create their works.
25,Weather Mage - providing rain for farmers & guaranteed good weather for outside events.
26,Wind Mage - speeds up sea travel by providing a constant wind.
27,"Swap delivery; when ordering an item, you receive a clay likeness of the item that will swap places with the completed good."
28,"Makeover Mage - will change your gender, even if you just came in to ask for directions."
29,Laundry Service - A wizard with modified spells like Cone of Fold and Detergent Ray offers to have your clothing cleaner than the day you bought it.
30,Summoned Stories - they specialize in the magical aspects of construction. Magically built buildings at the highest end (might take a year or more). Magical traps and secret rooms at the mid-range. Magic windows or toilets at the low end.
31,"Items lost - they specialize in untraceable getting rid of things. Depending on the thing this could just be casting disintegrate or could involve sending things to destructive planes like the center of the plane of fire. They say they won't do people or bodies of sentients, but you have your doubts."
32,Smells By Design - magical perfumes.
33,Better Friends - they will cast awaken on your pets. No guarantees.
34,Vital Images - creating magical paintings that are photo realistic and may move or include sound.
35,Waukeen’s Walk In Clinic – all cleric spells available for a price. Including resurrection.
36,Witches Broom - a house cleaning service that specializes in using prestidigitation to get the house crazy clean.
37,"Goat Coins. Originally invented as a toy for a sorceress' daughter, Goat Coins contain one to three charges that allow the user to summon a mount for 24 hours. Goat coins are ideal for children's parties, but packhorse, draft mule, giant charging chicken, and Heffalumps are also available. Prices subject to the size and value of the mount, as well as the number of charges in the coin. (Mounts cannot fight and will dispel if injured.)"
38,A temp service that hires out undead servants (don’t worry! Our servants signed consent forms way in advance before they died!) to perform menial labor.
39,"The War Zone - A shop that sells magical trading cards which are used for dueling. They are enchanted to create illusionary images that actually fight each other. There are also tournaments held in the shop, and the champion wins a rare magic artifact as a price: a golden eye that lets you read your opponent’s thoughts. (only works during a card battle)"
40,Earwax Removal using a very small Mage Hand.
41,Flood Cleanup using Telekinesis and Mage Hand.
42,Dog Walking using Mage Hand.
43,Magical beast walking/pet sitting.
44,"The Finder - will track down who or what you need. Is basically psychic, so supplying an item important to the target will help."
45,"Balthasar's Bedazzling Beauty Boutique - A high mage who was once tormented for his appearance. In younger years he had a split lip, one eye with no iris and a semi developed nose. Being so shunned by his peers he focused manically on his studies and after many years of training became a spectacularly gifted transmutation wizard. Balthasar has since used his powers to transform himself into ever more perfect depictions of beauty and is the most sought-after guest for the high-end dinner parties in (whatever town you put him). He makes a fortune with spells such as seeming and modified versions of alter self (much like professional makeup artists), but his best-selling service is true polymorph. For the small price of a couple hundred gold (scale to your economy) he changes fat people into thin, does chin and nose jobs, gender swaps, anything you can pay for."
46,"Witty Comeback Assist - The next time the player is insulted, a perverse and demonic trickster will remotely whisper 1d4 cutting responses in the players ear. They might even be able to divine personal secrets of their victim to make the remarks that much more legendary."
47,Magical Services locator - this ley line reader can tell you how to find many of the other services on this list by studying the vibrations of the magical ley lines. All their directions will be given using invisible ley lines as landmarks. They will give the customer a special ley line candle that burns blue when it is near a ley line. But the candle goes out a lot.
48,"Magic Smack - For a fee, this vendor will cast an untraceable magical smack in real time, on any target the customer has a piece of (hair, skin, finger, etc.). The smack does no damage, but in Common a rude disembodied voice says your choice of, 'You've been smacked!', 'That's what you get!', or 'Don't make me come back!"
49,"Supernatural Tracker - For a small sum, a local druid offers to track anyone of your choosing in the local forests. He employs creatures on land and air to stealthy track a target for up to 24 hours. A scribe will transpose the animal's description and location of the events on paper for a small extra fee."
50,An “effects” seller who casts enchantments on clothes to make them sparkle or appear on fire.
51,"Magical Tattoo Remover, transfer or wipe away a tattoo or similar marking from the body."
52,"Divine investment/broker services, diviners who observe and modify markets to get the best results for them and their clients. This business can get rather hairy when different firms or individuals seek opposing results."
53,"Last Will and Testament, necromancers who use their trade to provide closure to family estates (as long as the corpse is intact). Living wills are not accepted."
54,"Divine Winds Acupuncture and Massage, a parlor that focuses on healing and enhancing the body by channeling the ambient magics of the world through key points in the body."
55,Clothing mender uses magic to repair and tailor clothes.
56,"Magical match maker, the girl you like doesn't like you? Time to change her mind with some enchantment."
57,Translation service using Comprehend Languages. They literally trade you the book for another one that you can actually read. For a small fee of course.
58,"Anti- Surveillance/ Security - Magical surveillance can be a nuisance. This Private Mercenary Group doesn't fight for you but will design and install methods of keeping your home safe from Scrying, Divining magics, and intruders."
59,"A prostitute offers you a magical fun time, in reality they are using modify memory to make you think the best time of your life. Nothing of the sort really happens to you."
60,"Last Chances - For the exceedingly wealthy, 1000 gp is a drop in the bucket. Why not spend it keeping yourself safe? For the cost of the components and a small fee, we cast Contingency, keyed to whatever spell you want!"
61,"Twendel's Traveling Travel Agency - A wizard named Twendel travels around on foot to various towns bringing along with them a box full of vacations in a jar. After paying a small fee the client picks out a jar, each jar having its own terrain and what level of difficulty they would like their vacation to have. The wizard then shrinks down the clients, places them in the jar and after a predetermined set of time releases them from the jar either having enjoyed a relaxing vacation in a tropical paradise or battled their way through an orcish stronghold to claim useful artifacts. Based on the difficulty of the jar the price increases but the wizard also stocks the more difficult jars with better loot."
62,"Sending House - A large building, full is Stones of Sending that each go to different cities, acting as a relay, will send a message for a small fee."
63,Lawson's Legally Binding Legislation - Magical contracts whose contents must be enforced.
64,Druidic Gardening Service - They use plant magic to give you lush foliage and natural topiary. No more patchy lawns.
65,"The Rite Choice - Mages in the business of performing funeral ceremonies for the wealthy, complete with interment and sealing of the tomb with your choice of curses for any who might come grave robbing. For a fee, they'll also lift curses for family members who have decided they want to pawn grandma's ring after all."
66,Sleep helpers - A group of mages cast sleep to help insomniacs or people that need a nice rest.
67,"Emergency Food - a dedicated magic-using chef will use 'Create Food and Water' to instantly make food for you, although it's pricey and there's a limited supply! (Of spell slots)"
68,"Hidden Magic Item Store - the owners have an illegal list of magic items bought from shady connections. Only through thieves' cant can you identify the store and order a magic item. Otherwise, the store seems a normal store."
69,VSM Arcade - a team of wizards have mastered the Programmed Illusion spell and have essentially turned their workshop into a 'VR' arcade for PC's. They can fight hordes of monsters (or DM can get more creative with what they can do) and perform spells and abilities without cost or rest without being in any actual danger. Costs 10gp per hour.
70,"Body Mods - A mage will alter your appearance to take on the characteristics of different creatures. Fur, fangs, claws, gills, bird eyes, even wings if you have the coins."
71,"The Auction of Many Things - An Auction house that specializes in obtaining artifacts and magic items throughout the multiverse. The cost may be expensive, but the various artifacts are well worth the cost. You may feast your eyes on the Book of Asmodeus one day then the next day is an artifact that gives you insight into the draconic prophecy."
72,Speak with Well-Read - using something similar to Telepathic Bond but with a potentially longer duration depending on how much you pay; these wizards will act as translators or on-call assistants for nearly any intellectual problem you have. They bill more if the customer exceeds a certain number of questions per minute.
73,"Boss Music - they'll put a spell on you. Specifically, they'll give you the ability to play one song or other musical arrangement of your choice (no action required) at will. The song emanates from your location and can also be turned off at will."
74,"Sloomba? Roomslime? The name is a work in progress, but the wizard presents a small slime. This magically created creature will move slowly around your house casting prestidigitation to keep things clean and maintained! And for the adventurers, I have a travel model! Basically, one installed in a custom backpack. This kind of magical labor-saving creature will revolutionize domestic life. Presto-slime?"
75,"Imagined Intimacy - a perfectly legal way to have the very realistic illusion of any kind of fantasy you could desire - just speak to the slightly sweaty wizard behind the counter, fill out your Fantastic Fantasy Form(tm) and head to one of the rooms in the back. Your Intimacy Awaits."
76,Alms Aplenty - A food bank run by a fairly exhausted cleric and their disciples. Constantly creating food and water for the poor and making sure it's distributed fairly.
77,On The Mend - For a small fee will cast mending on any object brought into the store.
78,Frosty's - A shave ice stall that manages to never run out of ice even on the hottest days of summer thanks to the proprietor knowing Frostbite.
79,Zone of Trust - A marriage/ relationship counseling group that one can go to and be ensured that your partner will not be speaking any lies within a 15ft radius. (The can also Calm Emotions)
80,"Allie's Appraisal - An antiques appraisal store that will be able to Identify the object, Detect Magic, and Comprehend Languages that may be written on your piece."
81,"Dr. Feelgood's - Not a real doctor. He is, however, a washed up one-hit-wonder bard who can Cure Wounds for a small fee."
82,Magical Cleaning Service - Enchanted tools and prestidigitation. Please do not leave apprentices alone in the room.
83,Dr Drenzel's Dentistry - A half-orc who doesn't actually fix your teeth but creates beautiful decorative metal or gemstone caps and bands for all sorts of teeth or tusks.
84,Manpower - Need a few extra hands for menial labor? We provide golems that can do a wide range of physical labor jobs.
85,Tunneling & Mining - Mages with shape earth & shape stone.
86,"The Ice Mage - providing ice whenever & wherever you need it. Ice cubes, ice blocks, a frozen pond, or even ice sculptures."
87,"Body Doubles - An illusionist that can make it look like you’re in two places at once. they can also make someone look & sound like you, so you can be seen somewhere that you’re not. Great for party tricks, alibis, or confusing assassins."
88,Soul Jars - keep the soul of whoever you like in a jar. No questions asked.
89,Pet Translators - Druids and rangers casting speak with animal to let pet owners communicate with their pets
90,Adventure Tours - Will teleport people to places like undersea ships they have made breathable and give interactive tours
91,Magical Confections - All manner of candies and pastries with magical twists: will it turn you green? Will you be able to lift a tree out of the ground with your mind? You never know until you try one!
92,"Curse Delivery Service - Do you really hate someone? Send them an item imbued with a minor curse! Try some of our favorites including incessant screaming inside of their head, a curse to make every food taste like something the recipient hates, and many more."
93,"Culpert's Construction Company- A magician speeds up construction efforts for large structures by using Move Earth to create the basement, leveling off the ground and smoothing the earth out."
94,The Phantom Opera House - An Opera house owned and run by a collection of illusion-based wizards who create visual spectacles to go along with the performances.
95,Perfect Paintings - A wizard creates what are essentially the world's first photographs by magically superimposing the target's image onto his own specially made material. they are in perfect clarity and he has a variety of fun pose and background options to choose from.
96,"Grenden the Enhancer - By night, this shady guy will sell you magical performance enhancers (jump, longstrider, etc.) to win races. By day he is a successful sports gambler."
97,Snilloc's Cold Storage - these ice wizards will keep your meat cold until you can sell it. Gentle repose is a specialty of theirs.
98,Locksmiths - Need an arcane lock on your door? Need an alarm on your entrance hall? Need a glyph of warding on your safe? These wizards have got you covered.
99,Roland's Replicators - Will make an exact magical copy of any item brought in. Cannot replicate magical effects but will give off a similar magical aura.
100,"Melvor's Magical Mead - Magic infused 'mead' that will get you drunk with only a thimble full. Contains all the effects of heavy drinking, but no alcohol."

d100,Entry

1,"Mordenkainen's Magnificent Malt: A beer with just a lower alcohol percentage, for the adventurer that expects he needs to be sober for the upcoming nights."
2,Mordenkainen's Malificent Malt: A beer with an alcohol percentage similar to that of whiskey that has its own plans for naive adventurers.
3,"Elven Absinthe: With an herbal taste, one can easily see why it is a popular drink among the elves. Drinkers take care, though, as it is much more potent than it seems."
4,"Underdark Ale: It isn’t really from the Underdark, but the brewers figured the name would be eye-catching (they weren’t wrong). It is a dark, potent Burton ale found in pretty much every tavern."
5,"Goodberry Sangria: Delicious, nutritious, and pricey, this sweet concoction is a fan favorite."
6,Devil's Blood Whiskey : Nobody knows whether there truly is devils' blood in this aged whiskey or not... but the feeling of fire in the chest definitely seems to support the claim.
7,Gore: Fermented pigs blood and cane sugar.
8,Iced Lager: From enchanted casks. Tastes as cool as the northlands.
9,Draconic Ale: A strong but rather basic ale; there are 10 additional varieties of it based on the chromatic and metallic dragons.
10,Red Draconic Ale: Infused with cinnamon; feel the burn.
11,Blue Draconic Ale: Infused with prickly pear cactus; causes slight static charge when drank.
12,"Green Draconic Ale: It feels like you're drinking straight poison, this ale is so strong."
13,Black Draconic Ale: Infused with various citrus to give it a slight acidity.
14,White Draconic Ale: Magically enchanted to stay close to the freezing temperature of water. You can feel it go all the way down.
15,Copper Draconic Ale: Infused with ginger; causes you to hiccup a few times.
16,Bronze Draconic Ale: Infused with coconut and pineapple. Smells like the sea.
17,Brass Draconic Ale: Infused with agave; makes you slightly sleepy.
18,"Silver Draconic Ale: More of a cider than an ale, it is magically enchanted to be the perfect temperature for the drinker. It is made using the finest apples."
19,"Gold Draconic Ale: Infused with cinnamon, little gold flakes can be seen floating within. Causes the drinker to belch small harmless flames for the next 5 minutes."
20,"Patrons Pint: A drink that shifts its type to correspond to the drinkers chosen patron/deity/inspiration. Dark ale with foam in the pattern of tentacles for a Great Old One, pale ale with an evershifting cloud for Archfey, and spiced mead with a bubbling fire at the base for the Fiend patron."
21,"Cave Breath Hard Whiskey: Of gnomish make. Gnomes don't do much alcohol, so when they do, you know they'll apply the same wacky engineering to make a bottle of essentially 50% rubbing alcohol and 50% gasoline that will 100% get you effed up."
22,"Bubblegut Ale: A dark, heavy brew with hints of clover. I bet you can't drink a pint without burping."
23,Frost Giant's Kiss: A chilled shot that leaves your breath frosty for 12 hours.
24,Red Fez: A heady palm wine brewed in the desert regions.
25,Tectlate: An ancient fermented corn drink. Based on a thousand year old recipe.
26,Miguelabu: It's a drink that is based off of Malibu but with an aasimar's twist.
27,Awakened Wine: A vineyard owned by a druid who cast Awaken on his vines. Claims it creates better wine when working with the plants input.
28,"Spore Wine: A svirfneblin wine made from crushed mushroom. Despite being considered top shelf due to its difficultly to obtain, most surface dwellers find it stomach turning. Definitely an acquired taste."
29,"Pixie Cider: Served by the teaspoon, this surprisingly potent drink leaves the drinker seeing stars and ""pixie dust"" trails behind all other creatures for 1d4 hours."
30,"Vegan Blood Wine: Wine that has been magically flavoured to taste like blood, for the socially conscious vampire."
31,"Zombie Whiskey: An out-of-touch elf decided the undead were ""in vogue"" this season and created this whiskey from grains soaked in rotting carcasses. Tastes absolutely awful but somehow leaves the drinker without a hangover."
32,"Jungle Juice: A spirit from Chult, made from berries grown wild in the jungles."
33,Ver-poo-th: A derogatory name for a vermouth from the moonshae isles that is made from cherries that have been eaten and defecated by a native tree cat.
34,"Orcish Rotgut: A surprisingly pleasant tasting, blood red alcoholic beverage, with secret ingredients that hide the fact that it's incredibly potent. Those particular ingredients do not sit well with non-orcish guts. Anyone drinking it that is not an orc or half-orc must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw a half hour after drinking it (separate from any checks that might be made to resist intoxication). Failure means the drinker feels painful nausea for the following 12 hours, during which the drinker cannot benefit from short or long rests and suffers disadvantage on attack rolls, saving throws, and ability checks."
35,Korin's Dragonmint Mead: A delightfully light and crisp drinking mead that has a hint of herbal flavors and a tiny finish of mint. Tastes awful to paladins for some unknown reason.
36,"Kobold Kombucha: Comes in all the chromatic flavours, perfect for your hippie-dippie druids and teetotaler paladins."
37,"Rubyrump's Red Ale: Made with all the care and love you'd expect from a dwarf with the name Rubyrump. A warm inviting red ale with a smooth finish. A winking dwarf caricature with a foamy flagon and ""It'll put that ruby twinkle in yer eye"" written in bold yellow letter on the barrels, crates, bottles, limited edition flagons, etc."
38,Jotenhiem's Ringlefich Brandy: Suprise suprise. Who would have guessed some of the best brandy in the region comes from some very outlander-ish Dragonborn living in the mountains. A favorite and well kept secret amongst the locals of the area. Best served warmed and paired with aged goats cheese.
39,"Denurs Golden Ale: A light beer with moderate hoppy finish and a crisp mouthfeel with the smallest notes of hickory and rasberry. Simple enough to be enjoyed casually, but with just enough hidden suprises for a beer lover to find interesting."
40,Gerlach's Winery: A merlot grown by gnomes. They say the process with which they make this particular merlot is actually a secret formula locked away in a vault guarded by two ogres too dumb to read but too smart to turn down the gold the Gerlach family puts up for their services.
41,"Gentleman Jim's: The mass produced whiskey that comes from the city in large shipments. Straightfoward and simple, cheap but effective for livening up a party. The black bottle with flourishes on its print is easily recognized by whiskey savant and dullard alike."
42,"Shanty Shandy: Allows the drinker to ""see"" musical tunes hanging in the air. Taking a swig before dancing dramatically improves one's skills. Powerfully addictive to bards, as it connects them with music on an intimate level. Bards who imbibe will soon be unable to play without it."
43,"Goblin Gutrot: Brewed in a local cave by the smartest of goblins, this stuff is your one copper for two flaggons. It will destroy your liver, tastes like shit and may have negative impact on you from cave rot. But at 2 tankads minimum per copper, sometimes you just want to get drunk."
44,"Brandis' Brandy: Named after a famous pirate captain, this brandy is cut with seawater, and the barrels it is aged in are submerged in the sea for a year before it is served to the patrons."
45,"Stahn Brown Ale: A rich dwarven-brewed ale, dark in colour and very strong in flavour. Regular consumption results in an inability to feel the cold, refusal to wear a coat even when snowing, and an immense craving for finely sliced spiced lamb with salad on a flatbread."
46,"Rats Piss: Served in goblin bars exclusively, in a stitched-up ratskin. Extremely powerful drink. It is customary at goblin parties to ""drain the rat"" by squeezing the skin dry in one go, similar to doing a yardie at a 21st."
47,"Moody Cider: Made from the apples of treants. However they were feeling when the fruit was harvested is the emotion that the drinker will experience for the next hour. Every drink is a gamble! Exuberance, depression, fits of laughter, shyness, love, or confusion."
48,Ooze Bane: A brutally strong and rough spirit that doubles as a solvent for oozes and jellies!
49,"Choke Ale: A nearly undrinkable goblin beverage made from fermented garlic. It is traditionally served with chunks of garlic floating in the glass, hence the name."
50,"Gru'sh: Made of the bladders of large sea-life, this coastal inn sells this oily black beverage in large serving sizes. It is extremely potent, and had it not been for its fluidity, it would be extremely hard to keep down. If spilled, you must make a Dexterity DC10 Saving Throw to not slip on the tile it was dropped on or fall prone."
51,"Dwarven Tomb: Also called a Pondahl Tafone by elitists who don't want to sound like a ruffian when they order it, this drink is a dwarven-made black mead. Besides its blackcurrants, it has a very earthy flavor and a grit to it. While someone who calls it a Pondhal Tafone would likely explain to you in depth that the earthy flavor and grittiness comes from a complicated and sophisticated fermenting process involving fresh roots that only a trained pallette can detect, the validity of this claim could be brought into question as the beverage is traditionally served in an unhewn stone cup. Something which those who call it a Dwarven Tomb, spare no time in pointing out, much to the frustration of their well dressed counterparts who are often mid-explanation."
52,Dark Smoke Bourbon: The best bourbon can only be appreciated with a fine cigar. That's why every bottle has a box included.
53,Party Poppers: A magic cider that has a prize appear after it is drunk. It's bottle cap also has numbers that act like a lottery.
54,"Black: A thin translucent black liquid that tastes somewhere between salt water and acrid smoke. Burns going down, ignites at the faintest rumour of a flame, but it's cheap as it comes (2cp for a bottle big enough to knock out an average human)."
55,"Brown: Looks like thick opaque brown ale with a lighter brown foam head. There is a noticeable delay when pouring and it will develop a skin if it sits out for too long. Tastes like strobg, creamy, slightly-acidic ale, but fill you up like a good lunch. Often described as a ""Meal in a Mug""."
56,"Lathander's Light Ale: A pale ale brewed by the clerics at a temple of Lathander. Rumoured to grant minor boons to followers of Lathander, which the temple will neither confirm nor deny."
57,"Borovian Wine: A rich blood red in colour, the bartender doesn't remember ordering it, but found it in the cellar so figured he might as well sell it. Not suspicious at all."
58,Beholders Tears: A clear spirit that causes very vivid dreams the next time the drinker sleeps. Actually just made from a plant know for it's hallucinatory effects but that doesn't make for an exciting name.
59,"The Princess: A reddish spirit with a fruity taste. Because of the sweetness, the colour and that is sometimes served with some flower inside the glass, some people may think of it as weak, but is extremely potent and usually a few glasses are enough to wake up the morning after with no recollection of what happened."
60,"Dragonblood: A dark red wine with an addition of some spice. It's called Dragonblood becouse of the colour, the fact that is served warm, and it's very spicy."
61,Fairy Gift: A liquor with an herbal flavour and a distinct light-blue colour. The colour is given by some rare plant and can remain for some time on your tongue or your lips
62,Holy Springs Golden Ale: Claims to be made from water drawn from a sacred stream and then blessed by a prophet of the gods. Everyone knows it's all bullshit but drink it anyway because it's super tasty.
63,"Nilbrew: A noxious brown liquid that is legendary for its terribleness and high alcohol content. People ritualistically drink this foul brew calling the process ""taking the wanderers journey"" due to the tendency of these impromptu acolytes to end up in the most unusual places."
64,Druidic Sangria: Messes with your visual color spectrum
65,"The Walking Red: A unassuming dry red wine that the players are instructed to ""let breathe,"" for a while before consumption. The longer the player lets it sit, the more it seems to actually be breathing. If left long enough, it will crawl out of the mug and wander away."
66,"Elven Ale: Made with a recipe stolen from a dwarven brewery. It's drinkable, but not great."
67,"Dwarven Wine: Made with a recipe stolen from and elven winery in retaliation to them stealing a beer recipe. Slightly more successful than the elvish attempt at beer, but not by much."
68,"Belbuck: A transulent green, spearmint beer favored by halflings."
69,Blue Eyes Wine: A halfling wine made from blue grapes.
70,"Luiren's Best: A black-as-ink, very sweet stout. Brewed by a coastal clan of Luiren, Smokardin."
71,"Pulsch Brown Ale: Halflings make this. It has a pleasant, nutty flavor."
72,Moon Mountain Ale: Very popular drink from the Moon Mountain Brewery in the Forgotten Realms.
73,"Stonesulder Wine: This yellow-hued, sharp-flavored liquid is made by the sap from demon plants from the Abyss, which is then fermented in wooden barrels."
74,Aelfengrape Wine: This elven drink is extraordinarily potent but doesn't have a refined taste.
75,Elven Aleeian Wine: Grapes plucked from wild vines deep in the forest. Takes several months to create one batch.
76,Dwarven Garnet Wine: Made from grapes high in the mountains.
77,"Dragonbite Bitter: Exceptionally dark beer. Recipe is centuries old, only the Dragonbite Brewery makes it."
78,"Dwarfhead Stout: A powerful, ""day to day"" brew favored by warriors. Mostly found in dwarven communities."
79,Frenzywater: Extremely potent. Bottle may sometimes spontaneously burst into flame if left in sunlight. Might cause a berserker rage.
80,Gnome Golden Light: A lightweight beer with flowery accents.
81,Elven Mead: Elves use exotic honey in the forest to make this. Even dwarves like this drink.
82,Elven Moondrop: Exquisite drink made by experts using fresh dew and moonlight.
83,"Moonslake: Minty halfling drink. Alcoholic apple cider that's been mixed with water in which crushed mint has been boiled, then strained out again. Cool taste, humans don't like the after-taste."
84,Darklake Stout: This drink is a signature ale brewed by the Muzgardt clan of Duergar that live in the Underdark settlement of Gracklstugh in the Forgotten Realms.
85,"Tea: It's just a nice warm cup of tea. Perfect after a day on the town, or a day killing monsters. Have it black, or with sugar and milk if you prefer."
86,Coffee: For those nights where you need to stay awake on guard duty.
87,"Three-Ashes Tea: This beverage is a cold, bitter tea, said to aid in meditation. Popular with the Dustmen in Sigil."
88,"Firewine: Brewed from the Arborean fireseed, firewine is a strong, smoky-flavored wine. It is often consumed alongside fireseeds, as each enhances the flavors of the other when consumed together."
89,"Oathbeer: Dwarves drink this as part of a ceremony to seal a pact, or as a sign of friendship and devotion. All involved swear an oath before a priest, shed blood into the beer, and the cup passed around. Oathbeer binds the drinkers to the oath, as long as they partake of their own free will. Violating the pact brings a curse upon the oathbreaker."
90,"Dwarven Grave Ale: When a great dwarven hero dies, skilled brewmasters are commissioned to create a signature ale to commemorate his passing. It is stored in barrels that have carvings of scenes of the dwarf's great deeds."
91,Golden Maggot: A terrible name for a surprisingly fruity pale ale. The recipe is a close-guarded secret.
92,Island Kava: A dull beige beverage made from a plant root from distant lands. A pungent earthy taste. Will make your lips numb and your brain number.
93,Jacka's Salted Mead: Tastes like honey-cured bacon. Looks like foul pond scum.
94,"C'Suk's Fortified Fruit Wine: The label literally says ""Will get you pished"""
95,"Owlbear Brew: Cheap and disappointingly watery lager. Inexplicably, the label depicts an Owlbear with massive breasts."
96,Owlbear Premium Brew: A palatable lager that won't break the bank. The label depicts an Owlbear with unfathomably large breasts and a paper party hat.
97,"Human Cider: Made with apples, not humans. Touts itself as a 'genuine human recipe' and has a picture of a happy farm girl on the label. Pairs well with belly pork."
98,Wyvern 981: A viscous liquor with an indescribable taste. Some have likened it to being punched in the nose with an onion whilst a fond memory kissed you gently inside your throat.
99,"Gelatinous Gin: One curious and profitably end point in the wizardly experimentation of Curzan is this breed of gelatinous cube, bottled, intoxicating and relatively safe for consumption. This lively cousin of the Gelatinous Cube dances wildly in its bottle when it is given a little shake, as if it is sloshed itself. Sometimes brewers add flecks of precious metals like gold simply for visual effect and conspicuous extravagance. Typically served in a shot glass, the gelatinous drink goes down with a slightly paralyzing effect giving the drinker a signature raspy lisp. It is sweet from the molasses half-metabolized into alcohol (yes, it's technically a rum) and flavored by other organic material added in the brewing process—berries are popular, but some adventurous combinations include ghost peppers, whole octopi and cilantro. Left too long on its own, it has been known to sneak out of the glass and crawl off a bar."
100,"Infernal Absinthe: Dangerous stuff. Functionally a deal with a devil in a bottle, infernal absinthe can produce visions in some, nightmares for others. Most people just pass out. If you drink enough of it, you might be in for a terrifying result."

d100,Entry

1,"Davis Owensby - A retired farmer who converted his old barn into a tavern. This tavern keeper brews all his own beers with hops that he grows. He will sit and talk about farming for hours, if you let him. He is worried about his cows going missing, and suspects the ogres in the hills are to blame."
2,"The Ghost of Sel'seren - This tavern is haunted by the previous tavern keeper who died a few years ago. Sel'seren was a gorgeous elven woman who treated all her guests like family. People who stay the night in this inn report having their covers being pulled over them on cold nights on their own, and mugs of ale being refilled on their own."
3,"Mugsy - The ex-criminal Mugsy is a goblin who pulled off a BIG heist in his past, and is using the tavern as a cover to stay under the radar. He speaks fluent Thieve's Cant and usually takes a liking to rogue players. He charges paladins extra."
4,"Slunk Copperpot - Slunk is a goblin stripper who recently came into possession of her own tavern because the previous owner died of mysterious circumstances. Slunk was always his favorite dancer, and he left the tavern to her in her will. The strange thing is, he died within days of telling Slunk that information. What a coincidence!"
5,"Al'Ashir - This foreigner from the desert is looking to start his new business in a land far from his home. He is overly accommodating, and typically cooks all the meals himself. If the patrons aren't used to desert cuisine, they may find it particularly on the dry side."
6,Thain D’ulbris - A former adventurer who says he has traveled with all the great heroes though none of his stories match up he is a portly fun loving man. Though he is a bit loud he has ties to the rebels though he doesn’t advertise this other than his rampant and aggressive nationalism he uses as a cover.
7,"Lily - This charming, attractive Elven woman always seems to know exactly what to say to cheer up patrons and get them talking. A town drunk swears that she's actually a disguised monster and the head of a local organized crime syndicate."
8,"Mimi - This enchanted wizard's familiar/apprentice runs the bar, using her telekinetic abilities in place of hands. The bar features a variety of exotic drinks from across the world and even some extraplanar ones (dangerous and highly expensive drinks only available with a reservation and advance order)."
9,"Nimue - This bright red horned tiefling has spent quite a bit of money on the decor of her bar, which is themed after hell. The bar/restaurant is upscale, and the food and drinks, while good, are pricy. This is a popular spot for the children of nobility to attend. The bartender has acquired several rocks enchanted with Nystul's Magic Aura, which she has put in the foundations in order to create an 'aura of evil' around the place."
10,"Kra'ax Three Claw - The hulking Half-Dragon is surprisingly well mannered, but will violently throw out anyone they learn takes part in the trapping of animals. They lost their left foot to an owlbear trap while traveling the wilds and sorely miss going on long treks through the untamed wilderness. Will buy or trade at a very fair price for fresh wild berries and unique stones."
11,"Grin Stoneboot - A stout dwarf, with fiery red hair and no beard, that owns and operates a tavern carved entirely from one large stone block. He’s known for his wild tales of his missing flying monkey. Every time one of his patrons asks him something he always manages to lead the conversation toward his missing monkey (Nam). Rumor has it that Grin shaved his beard and won’t regrow it until he finds his lost friend. I’m sure Grin would have a fantastic reward for the player that found poor Nam."
12,"Orx Thrallkeep - former gladiator, living his best life running a bar with a solid connection to the local sporting events community and betting parlors. His favorite weapon, a silver trident, is more than just decoration behind the bar."
13,"Abeg Two-Smiles - reformed thief, he was horribly scarred by an angry tavern owner during his early life and eventually returned from his adventuring days to not only buy the bar itself but also to help guide young, troubled future thieves by honing their skills and boasts that anyone able to successfully steal a mug from his bar will drink free for a year. So far, none have been able to do so."
14,"Juli Wise (formerly Jani the Jannkiller) - druid with a focus on elemental magic, she's laying low for the time being until the next planar alignment allows her return to some mysterious place where her allies are waiting. In the meantime, she's keeping busy and trying get information from every traveler staying at her roadside inn."
15,"Herk - a goblin who found the perfect score in treasure hunting - dead adventuring groups. His specialty is building quiet, lethal traps and placing them in front of already-cleared dungeons after the adventurers have entered. They die, he collects the loot and puts it to work building a safe space for his extended family. Remarkably, he's happier running a tavern than he ever was living in dungeons and caves."
16,"Josh - A well-mannered ogre. Runs a small tavern on the edge of town, and it's clear that he puts a lot of love into it. His family was kidnapped for a gladiatorial arena, meant to test fighters prowess. Josh could never really stand the sight of blood, so he opted to take on the position of cook for the combatants in the arena. He's very self-conscious about his size, but he's a gentle giant, and a friendly soul. Speaks with a slight New Zealand accent."
17,Weiss and Jaded - an Aasimar and Tiefling Wife/Husband duo. Weiss mans the bar putting patrons to ease with her holy feminine charm while Jaded in the back is the Cook and Brewmaster known for his signature drink Devil Rose Ale. If asked about their relationship they'll simply state that it was originally a joke to screw with friends but they learned to truly love each other.
18,"Lurag Strongbrew - Lurag is a retired Dwarven barbarian. He made it his mission in life to find the lost mead recipe of the legendary Dwarven brewer, Gilgoth Honeybeard. Once he retrieved it, he settled down and opened a tavern to share the legendary brew with the world."
19,"Meef, Störsk, and Gjël - A trio of gnomes who take turns bussing tables, cooking, and bartending. Tavern is built into the bottom of a cliff-face and the goblins added wooden structure to turn a large hollow into a serviceable, if somewhat cramped for medium and larger characters. They each have small wooden protrusions on tight fitting jerkins that attach on the back of the each shoulder. They use these to boost each other up and grab things from the top shelves. The food and beverages are mostly fungi-based with some options for everybody. They all complain of the smell if asked to cook meat, but will acquiesce and make the food without further qualm."
20,"Kareem Sandjabar - A mage who runs the tavern liberal use of mage hand, unseen servant, summons, and other magical means. Keeps a pet mimic named Boorf in the tavern that likes to prank people by turning into mugs and foot stools. Will pay handsomely for self-washing dishes because he cant stand the way his minions clean them."
21,"Elias Alondir - A high elf mage who seems a bit out of place running a tavern. Being a bit of a germaphobe, he has several unseen servants as his wait staff as well as his pseudodragon that collects payment and tips. Elias never touches the coins from his customers, instead dumping it all into a chest with Mage Hand and cleaning it later. When the tavern gets busy, the high elf gets a bit of anxiety and copes by letting out small laughs and chuckles as he converses with his patrons. The name of the tavern? The Laughing Mage."
22,"Iphin - A minor god of alcohol who got bored just being in his realm, sells stranded drinks for cheep and high quality drink for exorbitant prices, can cure hangovers for a price."
23,"Chime - This kenku is the owner and operator of Three Crows tavern/inn. The main drink is made in house and is called the three crows. Upon taking the first drink of a freshly poured Three Crows the drinker feels a burp coming but when they open their mouth to burp they let out three caws (bird sounds) the bigger the drink you take the louder the caws should be, the smaller the sip the more quiet. Chime being a Kenku and having difficulty with communication has signs all around his tavern, not just menu/room and board, but also common sayings and phrases that he’ll point to when he doesn’t feel like interacting Backstory Chime a retired Pirate, he was The first mate to the famous Captain Dread. He retired after he was injured in a battle with the Royal Navy."
24,"Littlebob Mancoon is a retired (from adventuring) halfling rogue with prison tattoos on his face. Barrel chested and rather tall for a halfling, he has a dead pan sense of humor but always raises one eyebrow when he's joking. Deep voiced, he is a quick talker who says 'ya ya' and 'no ya' alot. Always a gambler, he won this tavern called the Way Way in a high stakes game of Kiriki while incarcerated. He has a special where you roll 2 dice and are served drinks according to the outcome. If you roll a 1 and a 2 it's on the house. He also charges half price for those that order in thieves cant."
25,"Vorrakas Crixush - Red dragonborn paladin-turned-mercenary-turned tavern owner. Despite suffering great tragedy in his life, he is a stern, yet friendly and fatherly figure. A life-time of adventuring has made him a veritable font of wisdom on the subject, and many up-and-coming adventurers come to him for advice. Runs the Red Fang tavern and inn with his old friend and sworn-brother, the dwarf Hjolthrun Bronzeheart. Mess with his wait staff at your peril. Don't mess with his adoptive drow daughter if you wish to live a long life."
26,"Casémone Cosmone - A grey-skinned, brown-haired and ram-horned retired Lyre-playing Bard that runs a feywild-style tavern and claims himself to be a Faun. Drinks and dishes are named after imaginary feywild herbs, shrooms and berries, and tables are engraved with rings to make them look like tree stumps. Truth of the matter is he is simply a Tiefling that looks vaguely Faun-like and attempts to use this as a trick to get customers. Locals are usually aware of this, but an unassuming stranger may find themselves tricked. Despite knowing the trick, locals still come for the unique atmosphere and Casémone's bright smile and relentless dedication to the facade."
27,"Hjolthrun Bronzeheart - Dwarven ex-mercenary, now part-owner and brewmaster of the Red Fang tavern and inn. A jolly old soul always willing to share a few tales to anyone who asks. Spends his days experimenting with new types of alcoholic drinks, from making wine from watermelons to trying to recreate an old recipe that includes slime from a gelatinous cube. His most prized possession is a reinforced dwarven adamantine beer stein his calls Fimbul'kheled (Great Mug). Mess with his wait staff are your peril. Don't mess with his drow sworn-niece if you wish to live a long life."
28,"Aialla, a human bard who failed to make it in the big city and now runs an inn focused on performances. This way she can play all she wants. She's not amazing but not horrible either. Here anyone can play or read. In fact you need to perform or the price of your meal is doubled. What you perform is up to you, but each customer must do something on stage to get the discount."
29,"Angus Throwbeard - a surly dwarf that walks around on stilts, making him seven and a half foot tall."
30,"Dirk Prophet- Assimar Bartender with a love of spiced and mulled drinks. He stands at 6'5' and has golden hair with silver freckles. The most popular drink he makes is called Celestials call, it is 3 part vodka, one part berry juice, bitters and a sprinkling of mint and spices and a touch of silver dust. A retired bard he has his lute about the bar and can sometimes be caught playing on slow nights."
31,Boogle the Gnome - He has a pack of weasels that help him tend the bar.
32,Fizz the Kenku - who repeats your order back in your own voice. The 'Fizz' is literally the sound of a sudsy beer being poured.
33,Father Endros - Tends bar at a location run by the local church. He and his fellow monks brew beer in the name of their diety.
34,"Misty Spring - A hard as nails half elf who was raised by a nature loving human parent and now hates that lifestyle, almost as much as she hates her name. She hasn't left the confines of the city she lives in for years."
35,Floria - A sweet halfling barkeep who just wants to be everyone's mother. She has her regular's meals waiting for them when they clock out of their shifts. She is VERY attentive with her patrons.
36,"Umlog and Nevell aka 'the beauty and the beast'. Umlog is a literal troll, yet an extraordinary one. He's as intelligent as a troll can be and actually not a bad fellow. He is well read and has particularly deep knowledge of local laws. He acquired his tavern in a remote deal via an exchange of letters. No one knew a troll was the buyer, before the deal was done. People in this area -close to the feywoods- are very keen on honoring deals and contracts and thus, somewhat begrudgingly abstained from gathering their torches and pitchforks. The success of the 'Green side of Life' -that's the name of the tavern- is not only based on Umlog's craftiness, though. A nymph named Nevell works in the tavern at the side of Umlog. She is hospitality personified, a skilled chef, baker and singer. Nobody except them seems to know how they ended up together, but they run a really homely place in a village on the edge of civilization."
37,"Pierce 'Ears' Moldun, a balding human with normal sized, non-pierced ears, is the owner of Sweet Relethe. He is always looking down, at the drink he is pouring, the bar he is polishing, or the food he is cooking. He is a man of few words. Tell him, 'Ears, I need to give away a story,' and leave a proper sum on the bar. You will know what his service is worth if you truly need it. It may be expensive, but rarely more than one can pay. The price is different for every story, but if you do not offer enough, he will know after a quick glance at you. He will shake his head and continue with his work. If your coin is sufficient, he will nod his head, then get the dark blue bottle down from the top shelf. Slowly. Carefully. The bottle is beautifully made, but you find yourself unable to describe it apart from the color. He will pour a tiny shot, small as a thimble, before replacing the bottle and pulling you a beer to go with it. He will tell you that it's best to drop the shot in the beer then drink it slowly as you tell your story. It is best to trust him on this. As you begin your story, he will look up at you with eyes the same color as the bottle, and you will not be able to look away. He will listen intently as you tell your story, and as the words pass your lips they will also pass out of your memory. The regulars say that even if someone is sitting right next to you, they will not hear a word, just the quiet mumbling of a slow moving river. You will leave Sweet Relethe no longer possessed by your story, not in the slightest upset at your expenditure, and quick to recommend Ears of Sweet Relethe to anyone who seems in need of his service."
38,"Ripzicki Papqat - Gnomish owner of 'The Shimmer and Shine,' Rip is known for drinks that pack a punch stronger than their small size lets on. An accomplished but eccentric alchemist, Rip has taken to testing out the effects of his drinks at his inn."
39,"Shanassa the Viridescent - Dryad owner of 'The Cornucopia,' Shanassa's inn is actually a tree magically manipulated to house guests. Unfortunately, she had to close down the tables balanced on branches until she could figure out how to get drunk customers to stop falling off."
40,"Arthur 'Art' Igneous Ficer - Art is a an average sized fellow with sallow skin and sunken eyes. To give you an idea of his general appearance: despite owning a bar and inn for travelers, it looks like Art is the one that really could use some rest. But Art is a pleasant man with a passion for magically enchanted items. He gladly will talk to any traveler with such an item about the item. He finds it all fascinating. He will tell you that he used to dabble a little, but he couldn't find too many volunteers. So, he opened a bar and inn, and that pays pretty well. He keeps the price low, and that keeps travelers coming in. If you decide to stay for the night, all weapons need to be left in his care before you head up to your rooms. He's had too many drunken fights break out in the dormitory area, he will tell you. For any party member that blacks out at the bar or decides to stay the night, the DM must roll a D4 when the party member checks out of the inn. You see, Art never did give up his love of magic item creation, and he is desperately working on figuring out how to enchant weapons and items in a single night. DM rolled a 4? Surprise! An item of yours, at the DM's choosing, has acquired a properly functioning effect, also of your DM's choosing! Rolled a 3? Well, it's the same as 4, except the DM will also roll a 1d10 on your every use/attack, and a 1 will mean that your item misfired in wild magic (DM's choice). A 2? Oof. Well, it is the same as rolling a 3, except your item is completely unmagical except for the 1d10 chance of wild magic. And if the DM rolls a 1, then you were significantly robbed of either money or an item. Making magical weapons and items costs a lot, after all, and Art has a bit of rogue in him, it seems. Also, for any night a party member stays at the inn, there is a 1d6 chance of an unsatisfactorily explained small fire breaking out overnight. The following morning after such a fire, Art normally looks a little worse for wear."
41,"Judy Krom - Owner of the Dog's Ear Inn, she learned a spell of invisibility to 'clean up messes'. most patrons are none the wiser but casting a spell to see invisible things reveals that the cups and bar top are coated with years of dirt and grime. The town isn't really sure why people are getting so sick all the time but the bar is always packed because Judy is such a charismatic person. She'll tell you stories for hours, but none of them are true."
42,"Will Hornton - This bar called The Screaming Pickle has been in his family for 5 generations. People come from miles around for his pickle hooch. He never married and has no son to pass the bar to and it's getting late in his years. However, the business has slowed since the latest news of the campaign has scared customers off and he isn't sure he will have had anything to pass on to a kin anyway."
43,"Abigail Turnsprout - A jolly halfling who is an avid gardener. She spices her drinks with unique herbs grown in her garden just behind her tavern, The Tipsy Turnip. Her prized Top Shelf Brew has a secret recipe of herbs and spices that many have tried and failed to obtain."
44,"Tally- an older, buff halfling woman who speaks with a country accent and repeatedly calls the players 'honey.' Used to be an adventurer and tells stories of the fights she once found herself in."
45,"Bob, Jim, and Clyde- three gnomes in a trench coat. They all have completely different personalities, opinions of different races, and pricing. They go by whatever the name is of the gnome whose head is on top that day!"
46,"Oldeye Jasper - An elderly human with one white lazy eye. He's warm and inviting to people who come into his bar, but if you let him, he'll talk to you for hours about his conspiracy theories like Lizardfolk secretly running the kingdom, or Fey leaving changelings in place of local children, and the mayor being secretly a swarm of pixies in disuse. But these are just the ramblings of an old man. Right?..."
47,Sweeps - An animated broomstick that serves drinks and cleans the tavern 24/7. This would be extremely advantageous if he weren't so incredibly clumsy. He was made by the previous owner and now the current owners don't know how to get rid of him.
48,Sloppy' Joe Reznar. A Half Orc who earned his nickname for often being drunker than his customers.
49,"Tivali - A female tabaxi with 5 young kids all the same age who love roaming around the tables asking adventurers tons of questions. They will sometimes place wagers or entertain for money in order to compete with their siblings for who can make the most money in one night. If they were to ever get into trouble, Tivali would suddenly be there scooping them into her arms. She's a racing champion who's known to be able to run faster than a falcon can fly."
50,"The Tavern - There is no tavern keeper because this magical tavern is it's own keeper. Food appears on tables seconds after ordering it, and all you must do to pay is toss coins onto the wooden floor which immediately disappear without even a sound. There are no rooms available in this tavern, it is simply for enjoyment only. Those who forget to pay the bill tend do go missing the next day..."
51,"Amie, Aedricks, and Harlen. Triplets who’ve inherited a tavern. They are a Human, Elf, and Half-Elf and the Human and Elf are always feuding, leaving the Half-Elf to mediate. When the heroes arrive, the two are in such a bad fight, it must be resolved before the party can rest there for the night."
52,"Elane of Juunvanfel. She is a young bartender, daughter of the ancient bartender who was a mythomaniac. Everyone knows it, but He was harmless. He was saying he was a prince of a far away land called Juunvanfel, but no one believe him. Elane talk about it with a lot of humor, and there's no chance she is really a princess. But she is really kind and charismatic, and everyone in town called her Little Queen. (if you want the lie to be true, why not!)"
53,"Drubogg. An orc (or half-orc) who was a raider in the past. After 15 years of jail, the local authority had free him with mercy. One of the tavern in the town was dying because the bartender was very sick, and Drubogg help him to run his business. Since 3 year, this impressive orc are a meticulous bartender and the town seems to accept him quit gently, even with his violent past. He take care of the previous bartender with a cold, but sincere kindness."
54,"Jomag and Marsia. A couple who run the tavern since 20 years. The love between them is still joyful. But sometimes, they seems to be quit melancholic. If the players want to know something about it, the bartenders don't want to spread the information. But the customers will respond : they suffer they can't have children. Maybe, if one day the PCs find an orphan, they can make them very happy."
55,"One-Day-He. A clever halfling who is a sorcerer who had change his name to make a contract with a powerful, but naïve, Wealth Spirit. After 10 years of labor in this tavern, he will have access to an impressive amount of gold. Technically, he trade his soul... but the contract say 'One-day-he will give me his soul after he receive the gold.'. He's very happy and boastful about that. Maybe he's not so clever, because it's obvious for the PCs that all rogue people in town just wait the day who One-Day-He will receive the gold to steal him. Maybe the Wealth Spirit is vexed to had been so naïve, and will exchange the soul of One-Day-He with a lot of gold? Who knows!"
56,"Holt - A man in his mid thirties whos never left the town- and doesn't intend to. He knows everyone, and everyone knows him, and seems to owe him a favor. He's always willing to help out, going to great lengths to do so, and is very warm and welcoming to all in his tavern. The patrons of his tavern return his favors, and as such he holds many regular customers, many of who will jumpy quick to stop a destructive bar fight."
57,"Nora Durthane and Agnes Baumann, a dwarf and human couple. Agnes keeps the ledger, walking through the tavern room like a queen through court, greeting every patron with a smile. Nora runs the kitchens, providing hearty fare for adventurers and locals. Their tiefling son helps run the bar and remove belligerent patrons."
58,"Trish One-Eye - Owner and operator of the rickety old dive bar down by the docks. An old woman with a red embroidered eyepatch and short grey hair. She secretly can talk to rodents, and so can be an excellent source of rumors and information, if you get on her good side. Serves a spicy 'meat stew' which may or may not be made of cat. Will tell lewd jokes and talk shit about her ex-girlfriends if you get her drunk."
59,"Eigen Renn: A tall, heavily built human with a smirking smile and an exceptionally loud laugh. Always knows just what to say to break up a fight or set up favorite patrons for romance. Full of stories, most of which are obvious lies that you can't help but half believe. Remembers everyone's first name, their drink, their birthday, their type, and their misadventures (which he will happily and loudly relate to the entire bar--but all in good fun). Ruddy faced, with scant blond hair and tired, grey-blue eyes. He brags that he is son of a tavernkeeper, who was son of a tavernkeeper, who was son of a fallen princess and a tavern keeper. He isn't. He also isn't Eigen Renn. In another time and a distant country he had another name, the name of a slave trader notorious for his charm and cunning. He dealt in 'specialties:' finding just the right slave for your particular, and highly expensive taste. Children, oddities, half-breeds, even sentient monsters were all his trade. Rumor says he once sold a nobleman his own son after faking the boy's death. Another says he sold two rivals to each other, then sold both to a particularly inventive necromancer. Nothing was beneath him, and no one was beyond his reach. An elaborate magical ruse allowed him to escape his old life (with pockets full of gold and magical protections for his 'retirement'), he now amuses himself playing tavern keeper and practicing his own slaver's skills by manipulating the lives of his clients. Whether his enemies find him again--and if they do whether he is worth saving--is up to you."
60,"Bart Keep - an irresponsible innkeeper who runs a shoddy tavern. The food and drinks are low quality, brawls happen too often, a lot of stuff get stolen, and one time a pack of rats invaded the tavern. And he never notices because he says that he's busy with 'other things'. And when he means other things, he means looking at erotic literature and pleasuring himself. No wonder no one even bothered to shut down his tavern yet."
61,"Alice Bob - An innkeeper of a tavern with a horrible reputation who tries her hardest to make her tavern better, and yet she only makes things worse. Turns out that the tavern is cursed by a witch after Alice refused to serve her, thus cursing the tavern with bad luck."
62,"Xaero Xsisth: A lizardfolk woman, exiled in her youth from her tribe for being highly intelligent, which lizardfolk generally shun. Growing up in the shadows and alleys of a grand city, she learned how to cook, bake, brew and serve by observation. Asking her any question about tribal life may cause her to have an emotional breakdown. Xaero loves hearing tales of daring and adventure and if the story is good enough, she may just let you have a snack for free!"
63,Jasmine Mcaull - A blue macaw parrot aarokocroa who serves up any rum-based drink with a song and a smile. She often requests bards to try their hand at playing salsa music in her tavern and is known to give a couple of unsolicited tips to the adventurers that seem to appreciate the unusual music. Her tavern stands out for its bright colors and attempts at island décor.
64,Torin Pliedes - A solicitous satyr who spends half his time behind the bar and half his time tormenting the serving wenches. He has a permanent 'Help Wanted' sign in the window as he's a cruddy boss and most don't tolerate his attentions for long. He's so preoccupied that half the time he pours the beer but doesn't collect the money he's owed.
65,"Falstaff Argon - A stout half-orc who boasts about his accomplishments as an adventurer and proudly displays his war axe on an ebony plaque behind the bar. He challenges adventurers to take the bigger jobs and bigger hunts if he hears them deliberating in his tavern. He was injured badly in his last adventure and decided only then to retire, though it is clear he misses the life. He pays nobly for a good stag or boar and is known to post hunts of unusual creatures that plague the area."
66,"Grimm - This tavern is actually run by a number of different people and the main bartender switches out every single day to an entirely new person - but behind the scenes, it’s just a single changeling practicing their acting."
67,"Illia the Wise: A handsome dwarf woman, Illia is actually Illixthalix, an adult Gold Dragon who is locked in her dwarf form due to a run-in with a Fey spirit decades ago. Became a tavern keeper initially to keep her ear to the ground to try and find someone who could break the curse, but has found that she quite likes living amongst mortals. The local government is aware of her true draconic nature, and she has a tense agreement to advise them on matters concerning dragons, historical events, and magic items in exchange for them not causing her trouble. She can temporarily assume her true form, but doing so causes a good deal of discomfort and she is unable to hold the form for longer than a few moments (quite long enough to intimidate unruly patrons to settle down however). Is THE expert on the architecture and infrastructure of the now-nonexistent country of Grecciyn and has authored four books on the subject."
68,"Talensvar - Talensvar is a highly civilized ogre who dresses eloquently every night and keeps an immaculate establishment. The servers are all well-dressed, well-spoken and polite. Some are half-orcs, and some of the kitchen staff and plate clears dishwashers etc are goblins as well as human. It's a high-end inn. my game talents are lost two of his friends under mysterious circumstances in a battle and will pay adventurers to find them. He is well spoken polite tolerant, everything you don't expect an ogre to be. However he doesn't put up with any nonsense, except from a friend of his who's a local hedge wizard, who will be happy to join a party just for some pay at the end of it. He uses spells that often spectacularly fail, usually with somewhat comic but not too harmful results."
69,"Rondo “Double Dizzy” Thimblebottom: A retired Gnome Ranger Beastmaster who hung up his adventuring cap after his lifelong friend and pet Giant Badger, Dizzy, was slain in combat. He’s now the proprietor of Dizzy’s Pub, a dive-y but well-loved pub by locals who come to hear Rondo recount tales of his adventuring days, some comical, some downright frightening. A giant painting (by gnome standards, it’s only 60”x48”) of Dizzy curled up resting under a tree is adorned above a fireplace in the pub."
70,"Gina and Reyna, Gina is a kenku woman who owns the tavern and helps run it if the party has any questions she will point to Reyna her adopted daughter and tell them 'Ask Reyna'. Reyna is a half eleven girl that is 19 she has been teaching Gina how to talk more and is more then willing to answer any of the party's questions."
71,"Tolbin Shortwick, a halfling rouge who speaks thieves' cant and has a few drugs and basic potions that you can get if you speak thieves' cant to him. There are investigations on people getting robbed at other taverns and with further investigation you will learn it was Tolbin or if you speak thieves' cant Tolbin will tell you it was him."
72,"Chopper - A half-orc who cultivates rumors that they chop off body parts of those who don't pay their tab. They keep a few bottles on display with fingers and toes preserved inside, and have a ritual requiring those who want to start a tab, 'Kiss the Toe' by taking a drink from one of the bottles. Truth is, Chopper secretly knows a Gravedigger who can procure parts, no questions asked."
73,"Sweet Leaves - A small treant. The only type of alcohol that's served in their establishment is a special kind of Kirsch. This is because Sweet Leaves makes all their alcohol with their own cherries. As a result, Sweet Leaves' tavern is small but popular to a small group interested in the Kirsch."
74,"Virtus Swifttail - A slightly overweight centaur in his late 20s who decided that he preferred city life over the nomadic life of his former tribe. While he's chatty and provides good service, he often ends up bumping things accidentally with his horse half."
75,"Barrus Fymar - A large human man who's in his early 60s who towers over most of his guests. He used to be a paladin adventurer, but he lost his sword arm during a battle with a nightwalker and retired to become a tavern keep. He still displays the magical great sword he used on his journey inside his tavern, but it's now unusable by him."
76,"Sinead, Iron Golem operator of J.J. Killahans - Sinead was originally conjured as a bouncer for the rowdy establishment. The original owner, J.J., left the bar to Sinead in his will. Sinead runs the bar, though hospitality is often beyond her reach. She plays the same 3 tavern songs on a 15 minute loop, as 15 minutes is more than adequate time for a customer to consume their drink (and promptly leave)."
77,"Silent Joey is abnormal because he's, well, silent. Normally this would be an unacceptable obstacle for a bartender, but Joey is a master drink-maker and surprisingly good at interacting with customers. He's a very good listener, too."
78,"Greenscarf Tabitha has the power of appearance-changing but can't control it. She wears a green scarf so others can identify her, as it's anyone guess what face you'll see when you walk in each evening."
79,Malamenmar is a polite and talkative guy who runs a quiet inn on a mountain road. But once a month a mysterious man comes into the bar and Malamenmar drops everything to cater to this guy. If pressed he will reply that the man is a very dear friend and he values his comfort highly.
80,"Ranold and Ezra Nikos are brothers. Outgoing Ranold tends bar, reserved Ezra handles the supplies and finances. The strange thing is that the two are never seen in the same place at once."
81,Elizabeth the Strong is an ex-adventurer who decided to use a portion of her gold to open up a tavern and settle down. She proudly displays her armor and greataxe on a display behind the bar. Elizabeth is a great source of knowledge on all the exciting adventuring spots in the region.
82,"Kurdran Brewhammer - This Dwarf is the last remaining Brewhammer, legendary brewers that were known far and wide for a huge variety of beers. Kurdran is a retired adventurer who loves battle and action. He has a tall orange mohawk and a big bushy beard and is extremely proud of his family heritage. He's very friendly and loves to tell tales of his various adventures, but if provoked he is a fierce barbarian. With a swig of beer, he's ready to brawl!"
83,"Captain Andor Gray is the innkeeper of Sparrow's Rest. He was the captain of the Night Wind, a smuggling ship, but is now earning a mostly honest living. He retired after a shipwreck that killed most of his crew. He still keeps 'Pickle', a green parrot, who can usually be found in the common room. The bird will squawk '*awk* stay outta the grog *awk*' whenever someone refills their mug from the cask that Gray keeps out, free for the sailors who can't afford better. You can almost always find a fence buying goods there (no questions asked), and rumors say there's a hidden tunnel from the cellar that leads under the city wall to an abandoned quarry."
84,"Joost is the friendly innkeeper of the Crown and Crescent inn. He's either a very tall dwarf, or maybe a half-dwarf (no one's sure, and he won't say). He has rust-colored hair and a braided beard, which he tucks into his apron."
85,"Kósh is the half-orc innkeeper of the Outside Inn, just outside the city of Redcliff. He named it, but he doesn't really get the joke. Surprisingly, the inn does good business, even though it has few amenities except for a large stable and a good location if you're just passing through the city."
86,Zhirella is the attractive female half-elf innkeeper (and Madame) of the Golden Bush tavern. It's very popular for its high-class courtesans.
87,Egan 'Rusty' Ironmane is the dwarf innkeeper of the Silver Eel Tavern. He was formerly a fisherman and before that a soldier.
88,"Hard'ach 'Hardy' Sl'avis - A dragonborn with the mannerisms of a dwarf, he inherited his tavern from his grandfather, Sil'bahn. He has a knack for making spicy meals for his patrons, and is quite a friend to make, knowing all of the goings-on in the town."
89,"Cressida and Corinth Vor Haishen - a Dwarven couple with an adopted minotaur for a son far taller than either of them. They'll give you a discount if you can tell their son a story that'll keep him entertained for a bit, and want your input on where to send such a curious young boy to learn more. An academy, a monastery, they want input!"
90,"Skaesgolr the Tired - Skaesgolr the Tired of the Uthgardt will tolerate near enough anything, a fair fight is welcome, but assassins and thieves are not. He has much pride, and still believes he honors Uthgar, both with his past, and his present. His greatest achievement, a Giant sized great axe, it can be seen broken and damaged, hung in it’s ruined majesty on the rear wall above the bar. Anyone who challenges his idea or faith in his God will be challenged to a fight and/or be made to leave. Growing tired of finding the next great challenge, he claims that if Uthgar wants him to die in some great battle, it will have to find him - here he will wait... warm, well fed, with a belly fully of ale and a sack full of silver."
91,"Molly Rexxen - A red-headed human female who always wears a bandana over her hair. She's a retired high level fighter who was once a soldier, and was ridiculed because she was a woman amongst the guard. When her city was surprised attacked by a neighboring band of monsters, she devised a plan and led the charge that protected the city with no casualties. After this, she turned down a promotion and quit to build her tavern and create an adventuring guild."
92,"Modeus Jackson - a retired high level bard who runs 'The Pocket' Inn. Often humming as he works and any action he does seems to follow the rhythm to an unheard song. In fact anyone who stays in 'The Pocket' for long enough will find their actions more rhythmic than usual, joining in a symphony of synchronized cutlery clanking, mastication, foot tapping under harmonizing musical conversations and even melodious arguments. Modeus takes extra delight in serving Bard patrons who bring their own instruments and will offer discounts and advice in return for a quick performance."
93,"Krall Razorthorn - Former half-orc warrior turned tavern owner, he exchanged his armor for a tuxedo. He runs a high class tavern called The Silk Sheik Tavern, specializing in dainty cocktails and high end drinks."
94,"Borgrarg - Having amassed a fortune adventuring, this dwarf opened Drink. The tavern hasn't make so much as a copper piece in 4 years. He's been drunk all this time giving away drinks to anyone who walks in the door. Lucky for him, he's located in a small village, now known for its sobriety."
95,"Marty Oggbin - smallish, middle-aged human, with a slight hunch on his back. Born and raised locally. Marty is forever the optimist and mysteriously manages to spin any traveler's downtrodden tale. He often gives away food to those most in need."
96,"Breena Timbers - a forest gnome whose curiosity took her far and wide. She opened a tavern to meet as many interesting people as possible and hear their tales. She has a propensity to accidentally sneak up and startle people, and is a eavesdropping addict. Her smile is warm, her laughter is infectious, and her hospitality is unmatched."
97,"Khim - A sarcastic old Goblin with a bold head, bushy mustache and a peg leg. As a former adventurer, he seems to have all the stories a low- party could ask for. Nobody really knows how old he really is, but had this tavern for at least 20 years. Its also a favored spot for rogues and rangers in town."
98,"Gimble Scheppel - a forest gnome that owns the Kobold's Lair, a rough and rowdy tavern for the every day man. He is playful, likes pranks, and makes it his business to know EVERYONE that enters his tavern. He bought the tavern using money made as a spy/assassin in his past. He has mostly cleaned up now though, mostly..."
99,"Brock and Brady Yorin -These fraternal twin half-orcs started the 'Paper Lantern' as a pop-up tent following faires. They made sure to always take something local and not serve it until the next stop. After a few years they found they had enough currency put away to stop, and setup a place with actual walls. Now they import different brews and vintages from as far afield as they can, sometimes evening hiring on adventures for something rare or valuable. Their orc heritage shines through at night, in dim light, when their amber eyes watch you. And when they grin companionably at your tall tales, more than just incisors seem sharp. Skin that grey is a sign of sickness in others."
100,"Cret Episkop- A halfling who decided to open an inn in the center of Goliath settled lands. The bar counter upfront is nearly twice his height so there is a raised floor behind it. When asked why would he settle down here, he chuckles, and blushes, pointing out the tall Goliath barmaid serving the patrons and says she's his wife."

d100,Entry

1,The Axebreakers
2,The Copperpots
3,The Mithril-born
4,The Silverbeards
5,The Blue Mountain Clan
6,The Craghaven Dwarves
7,The Ironhelms
8,The Craghold Clan
9,The Crannog Clan
10,The Boatmurdered
11,The Alderfists
12,The Ashenforge
13,The Birchstone
14,The Elderbeards
15,The Hazelaxes
16,The Hollystrak
17,The Junipkil
18,The Oakenshield
19,The Rowangga
20,The Willowgart
21,The Yewhammer
22,The RockRacks
23,The StoneBorns
24,The HammerPants
25,The IronSets
26,The Goldbounds
27,The CopperTones
28,The DarkSeekers
29,The ForgeKeepers
30,The ShopSweepers
31,The BoozeBeards
32,The Dûnhark
33,The Khazad'amon
34,The Golden Dwarves
35,The Orcshorn
36,The Hafgrey
37,The Hafduergar
38,"The Sky Lords, Riders of Griffons"
39,The Ramrider
40,The Lords of the Gyre Mountains
41,The Firebeards
42,The Skyminer
43,The Kharak'bast
44,The Gnarlbeards
45,The Quartzeaters
46,The McKnuckles
47,The Ironjaws
48,The SureFoots
49,The LongWalkers
50,The Sons of Iron
51,The EarthChildren
52,"The Smiths (Pewter Smith, Gold Smith, Gun Smith)"
53,The Leadbelly
54,The Gritsword
55,The Goldenbrace
56,The Enemyfighters
57,The Dirgebane
58,The Khag
59,The Akurkam
60,The Chazakül
61,The Grimsleepers
62,The Deep-Crag Clan
63,The Rockjaw Clan
64,The Highcliff Clan
65,The Steel Whoole Clan
66,The Fissurefisher Clan
67,The Dustbuster Clan
68,The Mountainhall Clan
69,The Spiral Cavern Clan
70,The Gravelgut Clan
71,The Gritgobbler Clan
72,The Spire Forge Clan
73,The Totalay Hammard Clan
74,The Mountain Homes
75,Clan Krakhammer
76,Clan Stoneshaft
77,Clan Goldtrickle
78,The Forgeworn
79,The Mountainhewers
80,The Thunder Kings
81,The Stormhammers
82,The Riverwrights
83,The Frostbeards
84,The Hammerdashers
85,The Lords of the Crystal Caverns
86,The Goldbrewers
87,The Stormpeak
88,The Frostpeak
89,The Thundershod
90,The Hammerkeepers
91,The Winterhills
92,The Quick-smelter clan
93,The Goldenfield Clan
94,The Red-potters
95,The Highfields
96,The Honeywhiskey Clan
97,The Blackbones
98,The Longbeards
99,The Silvertomes
100,The Mountainfalls

d100,Entry

1,I am obsessed with information; even the most trivial of information could be used to turn the tide of any fight.
2,"While I am all-powerful and incredibly beautiful, I wonder often if something is wrong with me and I just don't realize it yet."
3,I appreciate being asked questions; it makes me feel smart to inform 'lesser' creatures. I'll talk about any topic I'm asked about (even if I don't actually know it)
4,"I believe anyone worshiping me hates me, anyone who hates me just doesn't know me yet."
5,I desire companionship above all else but also believe everyone is just using me for companionship.
6,Discussion of any type with anyone with less than an 18-20 INT is enraging.
7,"Combat is mundane, and the only thing that piques my interest is watching my opponents squirm. I will often unnecessarily (and perilously) extend combat to enjoy the show."
8,"I actually think the whole stigma of beholder-on-beholder racism holds our kind back, but any time I try and convince my brethren they try and kill me! I don’t think I’ll ever get through to them."
9,Obsessedly tries to make its lair luxuriously comfortable in preparation of going to sleep but always remembers one more thing to add just as it's about to fall asleep.
10,I know that any non-Beholders that oppose me are actually agents of a rival beholder. No inferior being has the capability of opposing me.
11,"I am the greatest zoologist in the world and will collect a menagerie containing a mating of every animal in the universe: rat, falcon, drown, hill giant, Illithid, etc."
12,"I am the greatest author to have ever graced parchment. You are going to listen to my reading of my 16,732 page magnum opus whether you like it or not."
13,Physical combat is for non-sentient insectsoids. I only engage in battles through games of strategy like chess.
14,"Eureka! After much contemplation, I have reached an epiphany my dim-witted brethren will never find: the smartest being is the one who knows nothing. Thus, I must know nothing. Anyone who attempts to convince or demonstrate my knowledge of anything must be destroyed."
15,"Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, right? So all other eyes are probably ugly, and really bothering you, so I'll take them off your hands (or faces). Just doing my part to make the world more beautiful."
16,"I believe that beholders are the only creatures that exist. All my minions? Polymorphed beholders, waiting to surprise me. Assassins? Illusions, constructs, or polymorphed as well. My go to test is dropping them off a cliff so they need to fly!"
17,"I speak in such annoyingly complex purple prose that every other creature can barely understand me, and I find this incredibly frustrating."
18,I speak in the native language of every creature I speak to (regardless of whether or not they speak said language) in order to show off my intellect.
19,I have used telepathy for so long that when I try to speak it comes out as bestial screams.
20,"I am constantly searching for my intellectual equal, and challenge every creature I meet to a contest of intellect with their life on the line should they lose."
21,I know that some lesser fools want to kill me. Obviously it's impossible but to avoid any risk I have created an incredibly accurate construct to act as my proxy in my primary lair that I control remotely from a separate demi-plane.
22,"They're trying to poison me! Even assassin's sent into my lair by my enemies are unsafe to eat. I can't rely on any of my underlings to bring me safe food, so I have my own carefully curated farm. With lots of traps to protect my livestock."
23,"I am far too big brained to have a physical body. I alone have transcended physical form. I am merely floating consciousness, coalesced Will. None can see me, but I can see all. What I don't see, doesn't exist. And what comes into existence is the power of my omnipotent subconscious keeping me from being bored by keeping part of my Will hidden from me. This is what happens when I discover new things. Even though it's new, I already knew it. It exists because I made it exist, I just tricked myself into forgetting. I hate that part of my all-powerfulness. I must destroy new things to teach myself a lesson."
24,"I make sure everything goes according to my plans. Enemies tripping over a rock and impaling themselves, or falling into a lava river only there for the ambiance, and missing my deviously clever traps just won't do, so I've made my lair one of the safest places in the world. Aside from the deviously clever traps, of course."
25,I am a comedy genius; the only reason one might not burst into tears at one of my jokes is due to their inferior intelligence and form being unable to comprehend the utter brilliance that is far realm humor!
26,"I take pity on those of much lower intelligence than mine (mad men, dogs, children) and keep them in my lair as pets."
27,"I am the single most, brilliant thing in existence, therefore, I am destined to conquer the realm and succeed in all things I set out to do, therefore, why bother establishing myself in a kingdom when it will inevitably come under my control?"
28,"HA! I know the true power of the world is money! Gold, silver, platinum, copper its all mine! I will slay all my enemies with the power of m... Are you looking at MY MONEY!?"
29,I am far too important to put in harm's way. I must be protected but no stupid creatures are truly trustworthy. Fortunately I can build an army. A nice protective army of steel and stone. Yes my tin men keep your master safe.
30,Of course! If I fly upside down no one will ever know I am a Beholder and I can kill them easily! I'm a genius!
31,Hmmmm. Oh yes. Don't you look scrumptious. Why if I seasoned you with devil horn powder and had nice cup of unicorn blood it would be just the most fabulous dinner.
32,"I must have an audience so they can bask in my brilliance, have they noticed that when you blow a 'C' the 7th harmonic is intensified to the third order throughout my complex. Did you not understand the music magic of my abode?"
33,"I am secretly envious of lesser of the lesser life forms because of their arms and legs. I experiment with different methods to emulate a body for myself (Telekinesis on a suit of armor, dominate person, etc.)"
34,The secrets of the universe are held within the stones beneath my floating orb body. I will become the best geologist in the realms by focusing intently on the rocks in my lair.
35,I have my slaves create puppets of lesser beholders and put on plays that end with them all realizing my superiority and declaring me supreme ruler over all beholders. I am trying to make a puppet of myself for the shows but I have yet to find a way to construct something that captures my majesty.
36,"I am aiming to become a powerful bard so that I can enchant and enslave the surface dwellers with my music, and have been kidnapping musicians to add to my orchestra. I am having a hard time finding a suitable instrument for myself to play though."
37,One of my eyestalks was blinded long ago and I am desperately trying to hide this fact.
38,"I live near a cult of mind flayers and am intrigued by the idea of a hive mind. I believe that if I could link my mind to a bunch of younger, more impressionable beholders I could form my own hive mind and our combined superior intellect would be unstoppable."
39,"Deer are beautiful, and I like beautiful things. That's why I have spent the last 50 years breeding a herd of over 200 deer in my lair."
40,"I value the unique and rare artifacts above all else, my collection is the envy of would be collectors and treasure hunters the world over. I am so proud of it I will show it off before every meal."
41,"I am a curator of the most beautiful, strange, and dangerous things in the world. None of my employees proved capable of caring for my precious possessions...so I added them to the collection."
42,"I adore riddles. Riddles are the whetstone of the mind, and mine must always remain sharp. Try your best one on me; I'm certain I'll be able to answer it. Though I must warn you; don't ask silly questions, and I won't play silly games. As long as your riddles entertain me, you may remain alive."
43,Everything needs to be clean and tidy! My home is incredibly neat and the slightest thing out of place will NOT go unnoticed.
44,"I saved the world 1,000 years ago and deserve recognition!"
45,I am overly courteous to distinguish myself from the common rabble. When others do not return my level of courtesy I fly into a rage.
46,"I was struck by lightning once, now, I have declared vengeance on the sky itself."
47,I'm Gonna Blot Out The Sun.
48,"Finally, I have found a medium Beautiful enough to carry my Visage: I'm Gonna Carve My Face in the Moon."
49,"More should know of my likeness and majesty. My minions are writers and artists, bards and singers patronized by my largeness."
50,The only being that nears me in beauty and elegance is the cat. That is why I have 150 of them.
51,Going to carve my lair into the shape of a big pinball table and roll around in it all the time.
52,I THINK DOGS SHOULD VOTE.
53,I suspect every treasure I acquire of being a magical trap planted by my enemies. Often I leave behind or even destroy items of enormous value simply because my gut tells me it'll be my undoing to keep them.
54,I am convinced that the entire world is an illusory reality created by a cruel god to observe me for his personal entertainment and that everyone except myself is in on it.
55,"I am obsessed with the concept of true randomness. I study statistics, collect polyhedral dice, and spend my free time endlessly flipping coins and recording the results; all with a neurotic resolve to prove some superficial concept of predetermination."
56,"I despise the concept of writing and fly into an incoherent rage whenever I see it, resolving to destroy any material on which there is written text."
57,"The sun is large, round, and vaguely eye-like. Obviously it is another beholder, and I must defeat it."
58,"I have devised five clever proofs for why I am god, and will explain them to you in extreme detail."
59,"Obviously got aren't as brilliant as me. It isn't your fault. I will, therefore, speak in extremely patronizing terms to you."
60,"There is only one weapon that can kill me. It's a mundane item or even a stick or rock. I have found it and keep it safe in my lair. If it is ever in my presence I am terrified and will immediately attack the bearer to kill them and recover the item. If the item so much as touches me, I will believe I've died and fall prone. I will remain as such. I'm so convinced I'm dead; I will soon become a Death Tyrant. I will then hound my killer. I will have lost my fear of the item. I will continue to stalk my killer until I am permanently dispatched. If I kill my nemesis. I will target his race of people and proceed to wipe them out of existence."
61,"My eyestalks are separate entities to my body. Each has a name and personality. Some of them I like, others I hate. I talk to them constantly and I hear them talk back. I've even had my thralls make wigs, clothes, and limbs for them. Sometimes the puppets are dead adventurers. When I talk to other beings, my eyestalks constantly interrupt and talk to the beings through my mouth, but I don't realize it."
62,"The world must know my genius, and the best way to do that is by putting on a play. I will be the main character, director, and actor for it while my minions run security."
63,"I'm actually a nice guy, but somewhere along the line I learned all my antonyms backwards, and refuse to believe I could have made such a mistake. When creatures show up in my lair and I tell them I am filled with rage at meeting them and wish only for war they keep attacking me, what jerks!"
64,I am incredibly interested in other worlds and about 3/4ths of the way through making a spelljammer. If questioned I'll discuss the subject at length.
65,I pissed off a rakshasa at some point and believe every creature that shows up in my lair is it. My anti-magic eye field should reveal it? That sounds like rakshasa talk!
66,I only want to share my poetry with the world. My poetry that causes psychic damage.
67,"To prove that beholders are the ultimate apex of creation I have been capturing creatures and putting them in competitions (gladiatorial fights, science fairs, riddle contests, etc.) then trying to cross breed the winners. I expect when I finally find the best in each category and combine them in the right order it'll make a beholder."
68,I'm not a beholder; I'm a gnome inventor piloting my beholder facsimile flying craft.
69,I'm an obsessive toy collector. I have a veritable army of tinkerers and my lair is filled with clockwork creations no one is allowed to touch.
70,I'm an obsessive 'toy' collector and my lair is filled with unique and rare creatures trapped in suspended animation.
71,I see beauty in the stars and want to recreate it. I've got a perpetual and ever growing fireball I constantly feed with arcane energy.
72,"I fancy myself a fashion designer, creating clothes for lesser races to make them look more beautiful, more like me. Lately this just hasn't been scratching the itch for me and I've started into actual body modification."
73,"For the past 100 years I've had an itch on my back I can't reach to scratch, no matter what I try. It has driven me into jibbering insanity. I also try to smash my bulk against any creatures that enter my lair in order to get at the itch."
74,I abhor the inefficiency of urination and defecation in lesser races and view it as the great scientific problem of our time. I'm trying to solve it.
75,"I am convinced the Aboleth who lives in the river below me is my best friend in the world. He is, in reality, just glad to have someone to talk to since his kids never call, the Drow won't stop trying to enslave him, the mind flayers keep trying to eat his brain and most adventures go mad and claw their own eyes out when he tries to explain simple concepts to them."
76,"I consider myself to be a great chef, and serve the finest cuisine to all my guests. Unfortunately, their pathetic palates can't handle 300-year old pickled rust beast and giant cave fungus tartar."
77,"Alignment-wise I'm actually a good person, to anyone but fellow beholders, who I am convinced are all plotting to brutally murder me. I'm not cruel like they are, so I'll let them live as long as they don't attack me first. I spend most of my time tending my herd of gas spores. That way, when they come to kill me, they'll have to figure out which is the real me."
78,"I was once enslaved by an evil wizard, until I bit his head off when he least expected it. Now I'm convinced that every wizard wants to enslave me. ALL WIZARDS MUST DIE!"
79,"I'm building a working model of Mechanus. Some fool tried to explain to me that Mechanus is infinite and that it was therefore impossible to model it, so I paralyzed him and strapped him to the big gear until he agreed to help."
80,"There is a beholder who lives in that pool of water who consistently mocks me. I've tried to kill me again and again, but he always seems to reform."
81,"I adore sculpting, and have decorated my layer with hundreds of sculptures of the greatest being in the multiverse: me!"
82,"I love mirrors. I have millions of them. Lately though, I've been seeing something out of the corner of one my eye. Something is swimming through my mirrors."
83,"I am obsessed with cheese, but have no idea what the process is for making it, as I have no idea what 'milk' is and refuse to believe that is what it really is when its explained to me. Babies don't need to eat special food when they're born; they're born with teeth and able to eat normally as soon as they are vomited out of their mother's mouth."
84,"I was raised by dwarves, and, consequently, am still violent and insane, but towards beholders and all evil-aligned raced instead of the world in general. I am also an alcoholic."
85,I was born from the dreams of a dying beholder and because of this I was born half-complete with only enough knowledge to survive.
86,"I've devoted my life to making the perfect poached egg, and have recently discovered that humanoid blood is the best liquid to poach with."
87,I have an extremely magical set of gloves and really would like to know how to wear them.
88,I know a wizard who casts Dream on me enabling me to continue having more and more children beholders in a dizzying array of mutations of my own perfect self.
89,I have to destroy my lair and start again whenever it's least expected. And the least expected time is when I have many visitors.
90,"The height of society and perfection is genteel hosting. I host balls and soirees to which everyone is invited. I watch from afar though, terrified of what my guests might think of me."
91,I saw a deer once and am consumed with jealousy of its beautiful antlers. My subordinates all wear antler helmets. I wear a headset fashioned out of glittering diamond and gold. If anyone with true antlers comes within my sight. I can't control myself.
92,My lair is a beautiful incredible echo chamber. Any creature within can hear my sonorous voice in Undercommon.
93,I love my pet goldfish.
94,"I have a vivisection theatre where I slowly and carefully experiment on all kinds of creatures. Any who would like to are welcome to come and watch. Should any audience members make even a sound during the procedure, they'll find themselves on the table next."
95,I believe that I am invisible.
96,"I want to summon a goristro, mind control it, strap myself to its waist as a belt and run around the world doing petty crime."
97,"I've developed an emotional connection to a little sickly gnomish boy. He lives in my lair and I do everything possible to keep him in good health but he keeps coughing. No clerics, no priests, no doctors have been able to cure him of his ailment. Perhaps, I'll have to beseech a higher power."
98,I'm going to wake the tarrasque.
99,"In order to preserve my health forever, I have a stash of dozens and dozens of Mellified Men."
100,"I am certain that there are types of beholders for other mortal senses, and any that disagree are untrustworthy."

d100,Entry

1,"I must be clean all the time. If I get even the slightest bit dirty, I drop everything and try to clean myself.'"
2,"I hear and see things that aren't there, and don't hear and see things that are there.'"
3,"I don't recognize anyone, even party members and family.'"
4,The world is too dark and creepy. I prefer to be asleep at all times.'
5,"My nightmares are too vivid. I prefer to stay awake at all times, and rarely sleep.'"
6,I do not want food or drink. It could be poisoned! I will not eat or drink until I myself prove it to be safe.'
7,In the dark something lingers that I cannot see. I need light all the time.'
8,I do not understand others. Their speech sounds like someone else's scream.'
9,"The sun radiates an energy I do not comprehend, and I will not be touched by it's rays.'"
10,"I look horrifying, and am terrified to let my face be seen. The people who’ve seen it and say it’s normal are lying to spare my feelings.'"
11,I’m being stalked by a secret society. They can be identified by the fact that they all wear green shirts or tunics.'
12,"I never eat wild-caught meat and sometimes go so far as to sabotage hunters, because around one in four wild animals are actually polymorphed humans.'"
13,"I’m letting it stay in for now, but my hand has been infected by a parasite that slumbers inside my palm. Someday, it’s going to start making me miss attacks or fail at skills I should know well. At that point, I’ll have to cut the whole hand off before it develops sentience and tries to take more control.'"
14,"My (close family member) is out there somewhere, and I’ll turn every village I find upside down until I find them. The corpse they showed me was obviously a fake.'"
15,"My patron has given me everything, and I would do anything for them. Why yes, of course they're real!'"
16,"I cannot stand the color red. Every time I see it, I have vivid hallucinations of my own death and the spilling of my blood.'"
17,I am constantly wary of verbal and contractual trickery. I'm sure people are trying to catch me with a clause I skimmed over.'
18,"Every night, my god talks to me. I believe that I am their prophet.'"
19,"My own appearance disgusts me, and my hands appear far older and more withered than they should reasonably be.'"
20,"I feel an unnatural compulsion to do 'unlucky things', such as passing by a black cat I see, or breaking any mirrors in my dwelling.'"
21,I'm very guilty for a great crime I committed. I'll do anything to cover it up.'
22,Someone else lives in this body with me. I'm not sure who.'
23,I dreamt about someone in great pain. I'll do anything to find and save them.'
24,Music sounds cacophonous and discordant to me.'
25,Cooked meat tastes ashy and burnt. Only raw meat taste edible.'
26,Every whisper is about me.'
27,Pain is meaningless. I find myself struggling to motivate myself to get out of harms way.'
28,"Perfume, food, and soap smell putrid. Filth, refuse and sewage smell aromatic.'"
29,I see my flesh wriggling out of the corner of my eyes like there's something moving underneath.'
30,I see things in art and depictions that no one else sees.'
31,"Words and letters move around when I read them, sometimes they spell other new word or sentences.'"
32,"Every emotion I have is stronger than I can control, I often find myself snapping over small things or weeping uncontrollably.'"
33,I must be undead. I just know it.'
34,"My vision has gone haywire, and I can only see things on my (roll 1d4, 1-2 left, 3-4 right)'"
35,I think I can talk to the dead.'
36,"I blink and breathe only on command, and have to concentrate to do so.'"
37,"I think things that are far away are very close by, and things that are close by are far away.'"
38,"I have lost the concept of numbers. There is either no things, one thing or many things.'"
39,"My limbs feel weird and awkward, and I have trouble doing what I want with them.'"
40,I can't smell anything at all.'
41,"I can't hear anything, only whispers urging me to do things.'"
42,I only feel safe when not holding anything. Anything in my hands might animate and attack me!'
43,Books contain dangerous knowledge. Only I can be trusted with them.'
44,"Knowledge is dangerous, and must be destroyed.'"
45,"I only understand every other word, but I believe I understand words in languages I dont understand.'"
46,"I am scared of being alone forever. I must keep myself near someone I know at all times, or I might be abandoned forever.'"
47,I must look at the sky any time I'm not doing anything to ensure it doesnt start falling and kill me.'
48,"I can't read, and books are useless anyway. Who needs them?'"
49,"I communicate only in code, and never say anything directly.'"
50,"I do not care about gold, silver, copper. Blood vials... That is currency of the future and I foresaw it.'"
51,I believe in astrology to the point of impulsive stupidity.'
52,Potions are poison. I do not care how much research and testing they have. Big Alchemy is ran by Greedy Demons and Grey Sky People!'
53,"I want a very specific gold piece, and will do anything to get it.'"
54,"I cant stand the idea of people breathing. If I see someone breathing, I will treat them as an enemy.'"
55,I will have my revenge against those closest to me!'
56,"I am being overcome by rot on my body, and there is nothing I can do to stop it.'"
57,"I will die if I become fully sober. I will die if I become too drunk. I must awake regularly to imbibe alcohol, and I must carry three person's share of water and spirits at all times.'"
58,"If I have the opportunity to kill someone, anyone, without getting caught, I will. My recognition of this fact is a direct order from my deity.'"
59,"Every other minute, I act like an animal.'"
60,"Everyone else is being controlled by telepathic spiders, and I must pretend I'm being controlled as well, or I WILL be controlled by one.'"
61,"If a hole with a diameter between the width of my thumb and the length of my thumb exists, I must urinate in it before being able to touch the object it's in.'"
62,"If it looks edible, I'll probably eat it.'"
63,"If I see and recognize a number as prime, I must verbally count from zero up to that number.'"
64,"Every humanoid I see looks the same, like its an army of clones.'"
65,"Everything tastes super spicy, even the air!'"
66,"I cannot willingly tell a lie, and if I figure out something I said was a lie, I must make an unarmed strike against myself.'"
67,"No one must know that I'm a secret agent of (insert nonexistent BBEG here), and I cannot be convinced that they do not exist, for who else could I be serving?'"
68,"Every time I blink, somewhere, that statue of (insert famous person here) moves another mile towards me. I must ensure that it never catches me!'"
69,"I am incredibly lusty all the time, and the only time I am content is when I am sating that lust.'"
70,"A powerful mage turned me into a different race, and even modified all images of me and my memories to beleive I am one of that race!'"
71,"A powerful (insert other race) stole something from me, and I will kill every person of that race until I get the item back!'"
72,I no longer know how to open or close doors.'
73,"I hear all spoken words as song, and when I speak, I sing to join in.'"
74,"I must mentally catalogue all of the ways to feel pain. If I see a new source of pain, or one that I’ve forgotten the exact feeling of, I must hurt myself with it.'"
75,"I am guilty of a heinous crime against the people I interact with and must pay recompense in some way. I seldom remember what my crime was, but I can feel in my heart when I’ve wronged people.'"
76,I am never wrong. Evidence against me is always fake or a misunderstanding somehow.'
77,My fists feel more powerful than any weapon or spell I own.'
78,"I believe I can turn things invisible to me, and am convinced that I can use this to see things I actually cannot.'"
79,I have to use sarcasm at least every other sentence.'
80,"I think theres a tasty thing that I'm always chewing on, but I'm not actually chewing on anything.'"
81,"The authorities are conspiring against me. I do not trust any authority figure, whether civic, religious, institutional or otherwise.'"
82,"I have been chosen by a particular deity to carry out its will, and sometimes its will contradicts my own. But I have no choice. I must carry out its will, even when its commands are not congruent with my alignment.'"
83,"I am constantly carrying on conversations with an invisible entity that no one else can perceive. I believe the conversations are silent within my head, but I'm actually saying everything out loud — sometimes TOO loud.'"
84,"I have gazed into the abyss and it has left lasting effects on me. Every time I roll for anything, I have a low chance of instead staring into space. this chance increases every time i make a check, attack roll, or saving throw.'"
85,"There's a particular piece of unusual headgear that I prefer to wear, and I wear it all the time, even in inappropriate situations and circumstances. Whether it's a cap, hat, helmet, crown, or whatever — I wear it when in combat, when asleep, when eating, drinking and bathing. I never take it off. It protects me from the mind-readers, you see. They're trying to steal my thoughts.'"
86,"I believe that my weapon of choice is an intelligent creature. I talk to it occasionally, but I especially talk to it during combat. Every time I roll to hit with this weapon, there's a chance that I will instead stop to argue with the weapon instead of attacking.'"
87,"I carry a skull of a member of my race with me everywhere I go. It's not hidden in a bag, though — I wear it around my neck on a chain. I refuse to answer questions about it, and during down time I can often be seeing staring into its empty eyesockets and muttering to myself.'"
88,I am easily distracted by the fascinating complexity of the universe. I am constantly going off on tangents which at first sound super intellectual but don't actually go anywhere or lead to any meaningful conclusions.'
89,"When I mean to say anything, I am instead silent, but when I mean to think something, I say it loud and clear.'"
90,"I believe I have lycanthropy. As the full moon nears, I go into a panic and insist on locking myself away, in isolation, to protect innocents from my rampage. I will remove all my clothes, howl like an animal, and try incompetently to claw and bite anyone near me. I will forget how to speak, use tools, and wield weapons. My attempts to break free will be hilariously ineffectual. When dawn comes I will be convinced I transformed, insist I remember nothing but feelings of hunger and rage, and be very concerned about having hurt someone.'"
91,"Every kill I perform must be artistically pleasing, I'm a man of culture after all, not some crazed psycho!'"
92,"Because of the constant dangers out there in the world, I need to be constantly reassured that I am alive. If not acknowledged for twenty or so minutes, I will start to believe that I was just killed and became a ghost.'"
93,"Certain words hold power, and I refuse to utter these words. Anyone who says them are against me and planning my demise? What are these words? Are you planning to kill me?!'"
94,Any act of kindness towards me has ulterior motives.'
95,Mercy is for the weak. I kill all of them. Even the women and children. All are possible threats.'
96,"I can’t remember large portions of my previous life, and I’m not sure I can trust what I do remember.'"
97,I am convinced someone tampered with my memory (though this never happened).'
98,"I want all the money, I want to possess every single coin in the world.'"
99,"I burst out in random bouts of laughter, crying, or screaming, and I just can’t help it.'"
100,"Don’t look, but there are *things* following us. They’re hiding in the shadows, watching us. They’re everywhere!'"

d100,Entry

1,"A shining pendant of white stone, engraved with a symbol that you vaguely recognize."
2,An ivory chess piece that once belonged to an Elven king. An adventuring ancestor of yours stole it and it has been passed down for many generations.
3,A quill pen crafted from the feather of a griffon. The feather can change the color of the ink being used on command.
4,A faded flag that belonged to a mysterious sea vessel. The ship was never found and you came across the flag washed ashore on the beach.
5,A troll's fang hanging from a leather cord. The troll was slain by a local folk hero and given to you as a gift.
6,The signet ring of a vanished monarchy.
7,Skull of a creature that nobody can recognize. It resembles a large bird with a hollow bone tube protruding from its forehead.
8,A large and curious-looking bulb (botanical). Nobody knows what will grow if it's planted.
9,A jar of unrecognizable spicy sauce that is from a foreign land.
10,"A set of four bone dice, so worn that you can barely make out the symbols."
11,A silver ring with a small hidden compartment.
12,A fist sized glass eye.
13,An old music box that plays a vaguely recognizable song nobody can place.
14,A pocket-size photo that can blink.
15,A worn-out book of jokes your grandpa use to win your grandma. It's dedicated to you even if you didn't meet him.
16,A tiny dragon preserved in amber.
17,"A river stone that crumbles when you hold it, but never gets smaller."
18,A mouse skull that floats when placed over a fire
19,A small tooth with a romantic scene carved into it in the finest detail.
20,"A gem that projects an illusion of a girl in white, she seems to be asking for something."
21,A stamp for a wax seal of a design you’ve never seen before.
22,A matchstick with a statue carved out of the head.
23,A bottle of wine with a label dated from before the Spellplague.
24,A medal known to be awarded to heroes of a long forgotten kingdom.
25,"An unsigned contract with an otherworldly entity that grants the undersigned a favor at the cost of one returned, any time any where any how."
26,A flower of unknown species that grows in an empty vase in a darkened room - no soil no water no light.
27,An engraved dagger that supposedly belonged to an adventuring family member.
28,A dark amulet found in a relative's desk/dresser drawer.
29,A piece of paper with the names of your present or future party members on it.
30,A mummified finger that crawls like an inch worm.
31,A small mirror that reflects how you might look in ten years time.
32,A tiny bell that sprinkles fine glitter when rung.
33,A intricately chased pommel that must have come from a very special sword.
34,A coin that always lands on its edge when tossed/dropped.
35,"A trio of interlinked rings, which rotate slowly when put on a flat surface."
36,A vial with a liquid inside that never comes full to rest.
37,A rectangle of brass with cutouts and notches at regular intervals.
38,"A tin box with a small, eternally lit ember inside."
39,"A ring of dozens of keys, with no two matching."
40,"An ancient animal femur, smooth and brown, with a silvered head."
41,A pearl earring that occasionally produces a mild electric shock.
42,A silvered horseshoe that points towards strong sources of magic.
43,"An onyx astrolabe, also usable as a spell focus for the astrologically-inclined."
44,The skull of a doppelganger carved into a mask. Sometimes it still shifts and takes new shapes.
45,A silver pin in the shape of a lily with a blue gem set at its heart.
46,An ornately carved wooden ink pen that improves your handwriting.
47,A twisted stone ring with seemingly only one edge if you trace it with your finger. Grants the wearer pleasant dreams.
48,An old weathered stone that glitters in the firelight.
49,A small leather coin pouch that looks as if it can only carry one coin - a lucky coin.
50,"A well worn copper coin with a hole in it, threaded on a cord. You always feel warm wearing it."
51,"A small wooden lock box. The interior has a spot carved for an object, but the object is missing."
52,A pitcher in the shape of a cat that pours cream no matter what liquid is inside.
53,A stone carved in the shape of a squat frog. Whatever surface it is placed on becomes damp.
54,"A miniature carved stone wizards tower, no longer than your hand. At night, the window at the top glows with a pleasant light."
55,An cold-iron nail twisted into the shape of a holy symbol.
56,"A set of jadeite bangles with silver clasps, meant to be worn on the wrist."
57,"A small, perfectly round crystal sphere, with a strangely shaped gold piece embedded in the center. The coin is from a distant and ancient kingdom."
58,A chain of rose gold and nine tiny rose gold bells in the shape of acorns.
59,"A tiny, carved, rock crystal swan."
60,"A two sided red and white chalcedony cameo necklace, banded with gold. The carving is of a pastoral scene on one side, and a snarling beast on the other."
61,"A necklace of gold braid and nine knots, with an ivory clasp."
62,"Brass toy cart with a removeable little brass hedgehog rider, pulled by a brass rooster. The cart is decorated with a noble family crest."
63,A dusty pink rose quartzite prism deeply etched with monogrammed initials.
64,A gold and azurite brooch in the shape of a knotted branch and berries.
65,A carved stone horned toad made of Labradorite weighing approximately 2 kilograms. The toad is comprised of four pieces and fit together like a jigsaw.
66,A scrap of folded paper containing a message. Every time it is folded and unfolded the message changes.
67,A pocket watch that won’t stop spinning.
68,A glass lens that makes the world appear black and white when looked through.
69,A jar with an eyeball floating inside that occasionally moves.
70,A solid sphere of ice that emits smoke but cannot melt.
71,A glove made of writhing vines.
72,"A copper, hexagonal coin. On one side is a smiling face and the words “remember to live”. On the other is a skull and the words “remember you will die”."
73,A platinum hatpin with an image of a sailing ship.
74,"A brass disk divided by a 23 pointed star, and inset 7 small glass beads around the edge, with a series of small gauged holes and notches drilled in the disk. They are astonishingly precise, and are a wonder of manufacturing skill and machined tolerances."
75,"A tiny wooden box with a hollow globe of crystal filled with quicksilver and a fine-sized crystal glass boat and boatman inside it. The boatman occasionally changes poses, and sometimes catches little crystal fish."
76,"A compact, rugged brass clock in a small travelling case, which tells the time accurately and never loses a minute so long as it is carefully wound each day. It accurately records the phases of the moon, as well as local noon, sunrise, sunset, star-rise, and local midnight."
77,"A rectangle of cloudy white crystal, edged with silver. Looking through it will always show the position of the sun on a cloudy day."
78,A complete deck of antique playing cards that once belonged to a royal family. The face of one of the queens has been scribbled out.
79,A fine-toothed comb carved from a beautiful seashell and inlaid with silver.
80,"A small bunch of grapes carved from a dark red crystal. Licking them or placing them in your mouth will give you the flavor of grapes, but no sustenance."
81,"A curiously made coin of magically toughened glass, stamped with obscure ritual imagery and filled with quicksilver, without seams or air bubbles. They are about 20% larger than the size of a standard gold coin, but five times thicker and weighing 5 times as much as a single coin (10 per pound). To a numismatist collector it may be worth anywhere from 30 to 150gp. It contains 30gp worth of quicksilver."
82,A polished looking-glass made from a thin-slab of pyrite the size of one's hand. The back is etched with a sort of symbolic nonsense that resists decipherment. It weighs 4 pounds.
83,"A heavy brass tube two feet long, and an inch across, in the shape of a stylized dragon's head and mouth."
84,"An small statue of an animal, with a mouthpiece or whistle, and all made from terra-cotta pottery. When one blows through the end, the statue sounds authentically like the animal it looks like."
85,A small crystal ball filled with smoke. The smoke changes color to reflect the weather in a specific location.
86,A scrap of parchment outlining the solution to a puzzle.
87,A broach made from a large opal and the bones of giant insects.
88,"A clear gem on a chain, that gradually changes color when exposed to different schools of magic."
89,"A bracelet of silver beads. If a bead is separated from the bracelet, it will always roll in the direction of the wearer."
90,A whistle that attracts small mammalian creatures when blown.
91,"A miniature trident, with fey patterns inscribed on it."
92,"A small porcelain frog, which releases a little spray of water if stroked along its back."
93,"A platinum gambling chip, with a small crescent piece carved out of the center."
94,"A smooth reddish river stone, with veins of quartz and gold running through it."
95,A tiny book made of exquisite porcelain reliefs.
96,A clockwork caterpillar that walks in ever widening spirals.
97,A functional small scale model of a cannon.
98,A set of bone dice in a leather and velvet case. The dice bear runes instead of numbers.
99,"A metal apple with individual segments made of lead, tin, copper, bronze, iron, silver, gold and platinum."
100,"A nose to chin mask, which forces the wearer to talk in whispers."

d100,Entry

1,"The Old Lord's Watch - A group of retired combatants that protect a small village from evil threats. They put up the disguise of an old man/woman, but they haven't forgotten their training."
2,The Wayfarers - a band of pirates who pilot the seas off Waterdeep. They offer peace with pirates who run the Wayfarer flag. The High Wayfarer is an illithid pirate.
3,"Compassion Conclave - A conclave of Lawful Good Warlocks who work to promote being kind, helping others."
4,"My Eyes are Down Here - Gnomes, Halfings, Duergar, Kobolds, small races of all kinds grouping together for awareness of Shorter races and delivering speechs and information on how to talk to those of shorter stature."
5,The Unchained - Mercenary band comprised of former slaves and prisoners. Make use of scavenged or improvised weapons. Often found fighting in rebellions. Have a very loose command structure and usually exist in smaller groups.
6,"Society for the Protection of Nature - Various Druids, Monks, Paladins and Cleric of natural domains. Fighting against pollution of natural habitats, deforestation, industrialisation etc."
7,"RSPD - The Royal Society for the Protection of Dungeons. A group of fanatics who believe that dungeons are to be preserved and not delved in for treasure or glory, or even to sort out the kobold problem."
8,"The Legion of the Faceless - a nebulas organization that practices intense anonymity, always wearing masks when in combat or public settings. They claim to be everywhere and to hear everything, making them excellent at political blackmail and manipulation."
9,"The Cult of the Clear-Eyed Mind - a small group of dwarves that have sworn off alcohol. They boast of fantastic powers, such as remembering what happened last night."
10,The Jötunn Valkyries - Half giant and half Aasimar these armored shield maidens inspire both dreadful fear and fierce loyalty. Their hair dyed red with blood and their eyes burning with a rage only a fool would ignore sets the tone on the battlefield.
11,The Banner of Pine Needles - A warband of elfish archers known for hunting goblins and orcs. They show no mercy and offer no quarter.
12,The Glürgil Tinkerocracy - A Gnomish scientific community that believes wild and dangerous progress for the sake of progress is still progress...only faster.
13,"Lords of the Gyre Mountains - Dwarven emissaries, traders, warriors, smiths, and diplomats. Powerful and rich families comprise this clan. Their ancient walls have never been breached."
14,"The Scale - Lizardfolk, Dragonborn, and Tortles known for their ambushes and their proclivity to bed in the sewers of large cities."
15,"Morg Trigal - An abnormally large war band of goblins, orcs, and worgs. The large column of torches and smoke often gets them confused with a fire wurm. A war chief and shaman priestess leads the horde."
16,"The Ivory Jacks - Led by the large, mustachioed Rupert Quakesly, the Ivory Jacks are the city's premier white collar gang. They deal in upper class drugs, underground fight rings, brothels, casinos, and they have their hands in the pockets of most politicians."
17,"The Nobles of Naught - Led by the Crow Prince, a mysterious figure who wears a cloak of black feathers, the Nobles of Naught are everywhere. Dedicated to bringing an end to corruption and the mistreatment of the poor, the Nobles could be anyone, from the city guard, to the baker, to the small orphan on the street corner."
18,"The Sirens - Led by Madame Tuvelle, an elegant older woman, the Sirens are a group of elite spies and assassins around the world disguised as escorts and whores. Their base is in a huge, gaudy establishment known as the Sanguine Songbird, which fronts as an upper class casino/bar/brothel."
19,"Council of the Eight Tipped Star - An order of mages led by eight masters, each focused on one of the schools of magic."
20,The Knights of the Arsenal - An order of holy knights who value showmanship. They stage elaborate gladiatorial bouts as a way to fund expeditions to hunt and destroy evil forces throughout the world.
21,"The Deep Corsairs - Vicious pirates, mutated by some elder sea god into half-humanoid, half-fish monstrosities. Usually, they don't bother with ships of their own, simply rising out of the sea and sending their victims (and their treasure) to watery graves for later retrieval."
22,"The Order of St. Davûm - A holy order, founded by a priest of the god of death, whose priests go with armies marching to war to serve as healers and medics; they perform burial rights after battles for the fallen soldiers on both sides to prevent them from being brought back as undead."
23,"The Fraternal Order of the Azure Quill - An organization of sages and spies. Secretly run by an evil blue dragon, most members do not realize that they are collecting information specifically on the dragon's rivals to help him take them down."
24,"The Order of the Archive - A knightly order dedicated to preserving all knowledge, even reprehensible works by demon worshippers and necromancers, against a future dark age, and making sure it stays safely in the right hands. Knights of the Archive train rigorously in shutting down black mages, helping those who have had their minds stolen by evil magic, and protecting and copying ancient writings."
25,The Gabbo Initiative - A group of wizards that are convinced they can civilize goblins.
26,"The Council of Gears - Warforged, Gnomes, and Dwarves sit on this very public group whose main purpose is to limit the proliferation of dangerous technologies. Their influence spans continents."
27,"The Hollow Moon Pack - Lycanthropes, shape changers, and animagi so ancient they no longer change with the moon. They mostly keep to themselves, but when angered their savagery is legendary."
28,Crone Rock Watch - A group of paladins and clerics that hunt down hags and witches.
29,The Magistari - Five aasimar wizards sent from the east to destroy a great evil.
30,"The Silver Woodsmen - Anti lycanthrope, and expert monster hunters. They have all lost family to this affliction and are not known for showing mercy."
31,"The 50's - A gang of half-breeds. Half-orcs, half-elves, half-halflings (quarterlings?). You name it. They just want to be seen as legitimate races."
32,The Order of The White Stag - a group of rangers still loyal to an elven Prince in exile.
33,"The Last Arc - a group of environmentalist who believe that the end of days is coming, and have built a huge raft to ride out the apocalypse."
34,"Fragmented Truth - a faction of believers who think that the written history of the land is a lie, created by the ruling kingdom to control the common people. They seek the truth about history so they can expose the kingdom for the fakes they are."
35,Angelic Fighters - a well known faction of warriors who wish to finish to take their last breath on the battlefield. The faction will fight for any side in any conflict for the right coin.
36,"Glory's Treasure - a faction of low rank adventurers, searching for the long lost treasure of the ancient kingdom."
37,Altered Magic - The faction of dark mages who wish to change magic forever.
38,"Librarians of The Kingdom - a faction that seeks the knowledge lost to time. This faction consists of several scholars ranging from Historians to Poets. This faction has one core belief that the blue dragons are the superior creatures of this world, and as such the Librarians can't harm a blue dragon."
39,Shady Ladies - The mysterious faction of ladies who have been cast out of society for various reasons. The faction works in secret to gain enough power to over throw the current kingdom.
40,Black Bards - a famous group of bards that travel the lands searching for musical talent to join their faction.
41,"Huntsmen of Grim-Lock - a group of huntsmen that protect the town of Grim-Lock from the unknown evil of the world. This faction is mysterious in nature, and the very location of Grim-Lock is unknown. Joining the faction much less finding them is a struggle of impossible feats."
42,"The Gaia Chain - A massive, world-wide, ancient order comprised of druid circles, dragons, and elementals. Membership is usually passed along bloodlines. However, they have three gigantic temples that are open to the public only once a year."
43,"The Razing Horde - Barbarians, Orcs, and Goblin tribes that united and utterly destroyed a city for tormenting them with necromancy and dark magiks. They diverted a river to wash away the ruins of the wizard filth."
44,"The Capellbairn of Craghoof - Mostly scouting parties, traders, farmers, and warbands of centaurs & halflings. Very territorial... and very odd to see."
45,"The Witchgamut - An order headed by three sphinxes, three LE hags, and three Aasimar that are dedicated to keeping wild magic in check."
46,The Praxus Inquisitors - Order dedicated to purging the world of magic and their practitioners.
47,Infiltration Unit 42 - Warforged led spy cabal that hasn't stopped even though the Great War is long over.
48,Flumphs for a Peaceful Future - A cloister of flumphs have made a group that encourages peaceful interactions amongst the Underdark.
49,"The Green Order - A group of knights that protect a forest. When knighted, as part of their oath to the [forest/diety/whatever] their hair turns a dark forest green. (Shamelessly stolen from Matt Colville's Ratcatcher books)"
50,The Unalloyed - A group of xenophobic Dwarves that want to remove all non-Dwarves from Dwarven lands.
51,"Order of the Black Sun - a group of monster-hunters, made up of people who have lost family or friends to monstrosities. They are lead by a Knight in dark armor who's face is never seen. The Order is made up of good people, who aren't afraid to get their hands dirty."
52,Dragão azul (Order of the Blue Dragon) - A secret organization of agents that handle the less scrupulous needs of the ruling class. They have a set of coded chits they keep on their possession when communicating with each other.
53,The Glacial Stream - A mercenary group of made up of goliaths that were expelled from their tribes. They travel the world and take on dangerous tasks that either lead them to glory or an honorable death.
54,"Syndicates - a group of wizards, scientists and engineers who develop technologies to dominate the world. They live and work in underground chambers, protected by runes and automatons, and often attack settlements for supplies and test subjects."
55,"Owlbear Team Nine - an elite force of highly skilled combatants, who respond to immediate terrorist threats, and hunt down their headquarters in order to eliminate them."
56,"The NewWorlders - magic users who believe to have discovered a way to create a new plane of existence. Their objective is to create a realm of pure good, where all races can live happily and safely forever. They attempt to achieve this by the easiest and quickest means, which often involves theft and murder."
57,"The Knights of Pi - a group of paladins/druids that live in a big forest, supposedly protecting it from evildoers. They channel their magic using math, that always involves circles, and shouting the letter π."
58,"The Scarlet Troupe - a company of tricksters, jugglers, acrobats and strange animals that roam the land delighting the masses with dangerous acts and daring twirls. But that's a façade, for the Lady —head of the troupe— is a Mistress of the Assassin's Guild, and she moves the Troupe to where she (and them) must fulfill contracts."
59,"Knights of Levistus - an ancient group of devil worshippers that use only fire based magic. Their only goal for centuries has been to travel to their master in the Fifth Layer of Hell and melt the ice that imprisons him, and in turn they have been promised eternal life and power if they succeed."
60,The Sixth House - Members of a dishonored / forgotten noble family who work in the shadows to destabilize the ruling Five Houses.
61,"The Circus of Smiles - A roaming caravan of performers and clowns which is actually a dangerous cult of chaos and insanity. This roaming band leaves only destruction in their wake, as their charms lure members in with displays of debauchery and madness."
62,"The Curators - An organization of wizards of several races that have banded together to create the greatest compendium of magical knowledge called Index. They are known to fanatically hunt down and catalogue magical artifacts and tomes to add to their already sizable collection. They have even been known to trade in countries' secrets and intelligence, running a vast underground spy network."
63,"The Nighthawks - A group of assassins, under the guise of servants of the local death god/goddess. They are a rogue element, and disavowed by the death temple, as they actively kill, rather than letting death come naturally. Of course, this is a front for their true identity, a cult of demon worshippers, hunting artifacts of ancient power to fuel the gate spells that they intend to cast in order to allow their demon king to cross to the material realm and claim it. The most dedicated/depraved members have been gifted/cursed with a charm of undeath, rising a short time after they are killed as near-unkillable vessels of the demon king to exert his will and rage upon the mortal world for a time."
64,"The Golden Legacy - A terrorist organization composed of the descendants and worshippers of a tyrannical gold dragon. The dragon left behind its naturally good outlook on life in pursuit of greater power, starting a cult during the process. Even though it has been centuries since the dragon’s passing, members of all races can be found among the ranks of those that believe that the dragon will return one day. The organization is led by gold dragonborn who are believed to be of the dragon’s lineage, and are thereby holy in the organization’s eyes. The faction’s main focus is to seize the “holy land”, the capital of a nearby empire which had originally been the dragon’s lair. In addition, the faction is strongly prejudiced against all dragonborn that are not gold, even other metallic-descended dragonborn. They are seen as unholy, and the Legacy wages a race war on all “inferior” dragonborn in order to purge such “blasphemous creatures” from the world."
65,"The Church of the Great Eye - A cult that worships Chezdrur, a beholder."
66,"The Faith of the Laser Eye - A similar cult that worships Eloks, a rival beholder of Chezdrur."
67,Anonymouse - A group of anarchistic ratfolk. Known for their foul mouths and horrible pranks.
68,Tiamat's Teeth - Dragonborn and human followers make up this army. Conquest for their dragon masters is the only thing they know.
69,"The Oak Defenders - Mostly comprised of farmers, fighters, and freed slaves they will fight to protect their lands. They have quite the armory from all the foes they've defeated over generations. The local nobles are getting scared of their growing political aspirations."
70,"The Stone Hewers - They built most of the walls in the kingdom. Mostly civilized giants, human engineers, dwarf masons and ogres. They have a monopoly on both building walls and destroying them."
71,"The Tonabi - Hunter gatherers that live in yurts along a coastal mountain range to the north. Their territory extends to many islands and many an intruder has fallen to their arrows and harpoons. Love to trade fish, meats, pelts, and seaweed for metal."
72,The Yarn Pride - Tabaxi rouges that got tired of being treated poorly by society. They steal anything not nailed down. Scratch that...they just stole the nails. Check your pockets.
73,"The Sel'drow Heretics - Former wanderers and slaves from the Underdark. These Drow have taken to farming the lands of the surface world over generations. They spread out like ants, forming colonies with underground tunnels that connect to their home caves. They have never forgotten the old ways though."
74,"The Piruaga - Jungle dwellers that claim a large territory and are known for sending out emissaries to trade. Their fruits, bushmeats, nuts, medicines and other exotic goods are highly prized. Their dart poisons, however, are a well kept secret."
75,The Tokupi - Known headhunters. They are experts at water warfare. Their obsidian weapons are meant more to maim instead of kill. They are known slave traders.
76,The Red Thrush - A group of Kenku that splintered off from the local Thieves Guild. An abandoned wizard's tower is their base of operations.
77,The Ainmhithe Triads - Three corrupted druid conclaves that are committed to destroying every city on the planet.
78,Daughters of the Nymph - All female druid-led communes that hunt and capture men once a year.
79,"The Paper Court - A secret organization of scholars, wizards, and other knowledge-seekers. Most librarians and booksellers in the region are affiliated with them in some way. It is said that they have a sprawling underground library under a major city."
80,The Fold - A very selective organization of efficient mercenaries led secretly by a bronze dragon.
81,The Order of Balance - An ancient mystical organization of wizards and sages who try to keep the equilibrium between order and chaos. Not much is known about them but they appear to have had their hands in every major political conflict in the past thousand years.
82,"Multiverse Intervention Block - short MIB, A shadowy organization that deals with beings from another realm, unknown to most people. Conspiracies have formed about the existence of this group. It consists of highly trained mages and fighters who seem to be wherever some unidentified creatures causes havoc. They always wear black and seem somewhat inhuman to the people they encounter. Unfortunately, nobody ever remembers their faces or what happened after their visit."
83,"The Wee Green Men - Gnome farmers that will take over any land they feel they should own, and convert it to cabbage farming. They turn an impressive crop, but since most of it is fermented into alcohol they end up a nuisance for every nearby town a few weeks after the harvest. No town has survived more than one farming season without driving them out."
84,"Madam Maga's Travelling Brothel - A roaming caravan filled with, for lack of a better term, magic prostitutes. They use magic to charm people into entering and then change their forms to suit the needs of their , ahem, clients. It's run by a succubus with no real interest in wars or political troubles, unless it effects her work for the worse."
85,"The Rosehills - A traveling family of halfling diplomats committed to making peace between all races and factions. In fact they’re so committed to peace that they are willing to lie, steal, bribe, kill, and in extreme cases commit genocide if that’s what it takes to stop the bloodshed."
86,"Cade’s Foundation - An order of wizards who seek to educate the common people about magic and make taboo magical arts, such as necromancy, more socially acceptable."
87,"The Dammed - A group of druids protects a forest directly next to a massive trade city. Any time the city attempts to expand into the forest, The Dammed responds by organizing all the beavers in the forest to dam the main trade river that leads into the city."
88,The Goblin Crown - They possess one third of a magical crown that can control an ancient army of golden clock-work automatons. Known for kidnapping gnomes and dwarves in an effort to find the other pieces.
89,The Ancient Golden Dwarves - They possess one third of a magical crown that can control an ancient army of golden clock-work automatons. Known for kidnapping gnomes and goblins in an effort to find the other pieces.
90,The Clockwork Gnomes - They possess one third of a magical crown that can control an ancient army of golden clock-work automatons. Known for kidnapping goblins and dwarves in an effort to find the other pieces.
91,The Kingdom of the Blood Oak - A heavily armored and regimented army of elves. Their forest strongholds and forts are found along established trade routes. Their expansion throughout the forest resembles symbiosis more than conquest.
92,"Eyes of the Serpent - Yuan-Ti Purebloods, Lizardfolk, Tortles, and Dragonborn make up the bulk of this spy network. They trade in poisons and secrets. Their negotiations start with offering you a drink, and ends when they decide to give you the antidote."
93,"The Emerald Kingdom of Zô - A giant Dwarven stronghold sits on a bed of giant green crystals. These crystals are the size of mountains and run forever in rich subterranean veins. Home to dwarves, gnomes, and halflings they rarely allow the tallfolk to enter their domain. Their crystals release a gas that fuels an armada of air ships."
94,"Siggi's Marauders - Vikings, barbarians, berserkers, shield maidens... once they were roving tribes of raiding parties. That was until a legendary shield maiden gave her life to save the entire northern part of the continent. United under her banner, the peace her sacrifice wrought encouraged trade and expansion south. To kill a fellow Northerner is taboo and punishable by blood eagle."
95,The H'radrome Empire - A hobgoblin civilization based on ancient Rome. They use goblins as foot soldiers and their grand coliseum hosts daily games. The twisted columns leave much to be desired.
96,Order of the Shadow Lotus - Yuan-Ti Pureblood royal assassins and alchemists make up the upper echelons of this group. There are whispers of a lich leading them for the last 500 years.
97,"The Red Kings - An alliance of monsters and villains bent on ruling the world. Currently led by Kaanchiweartoliock, The Red Emperor, an ancient red dracolich."
98,"House of Bjernson - An ancient Nordic clan. Every male is named Bjern Bjernson and seeks some unique accomplishment to use as a Suffix. Founded by Bjern Bjernson the Lightbringer, vampire-hunting paladin. Currently lead by Bjern Bjernson the Darkslayer, monster hunter who has killed over two-hundred shadows."
99,"The Halls of the Dead - Reformed undead, vampires, zombies, ghouls and skeletons that just want to be left alone. They consider necromancers doctors and their territory envelopes graveyard after graveyard."
100,"The Titan Provincial Government - Refusing the ordening and the inequality it promotes, these giants have established a peaceful, stable community with humans out in the wilds. It is a true democracy, but is known for utterly destroying hostile invaders...and their homes...and their cities...and their countries. One of the last places on earth known to harvest the giantsbane plant. ""Humanoids are friends, not food...unless they attack first."""

d100,Entry

1,The character no longer has a shadow.
2,"The character has forgotten their own name. No one will remember them, even close friends and family."
3,"Every time you sleep, you only dream of yourself lying awake and wake up less rested than before."
4,You can no longer distinguish left and right.
5,"Every day, your eyes, change their color."
6,You become obsessed by kittens.
7,"From now on, every pet you see, you see it as an evil monster."
8,You can no longer perceive the color (d6:) 1. Red; 2. Orange; 3. Yellow; 4. Green; 5. Blue; 6. Purple
9,Anytime you touch something that is the color (d6) it automatically turns (d6). (d6:) 1. Red; 2. Orange; 3. Yellow; 4. Green; 5. Blue; 6. Purple
10,Your blood is perceived as (d6) by everyone except you. (d6:) 1. Red; 2. Orange; 3. Yellow; 4. Green; 5. Blue; 6. Purple
11,You are physically incapable of looking anyone directly in the eyes.
12,"The next time you see a frog, it will loudly proclaim that if you kiss it it will become a prince. Whether or not it really does is decided by the DM."
13,Water always feels very cold to you.
14,Your breathing is always loud and obnoxious.
15,"You can speak to the trees. They only talk about boring topics such as politics and the weather, but will not listen to anything you have to say."
16,Looking at a corpse that is more than 1 year old causes you to instantly vomit.
17,Touching gloves makes your hands feel like they are getting stung by bees.
18,Touching rope whatsoever gives you rope burn instantly.
19,"Anytime you see holy water, you get a great urge to down the whole bottle."
20,"Every time you see a bear, you perceive it as a 60 year old human wearing a bear costume."
21,"When it rains, you perceive every droplet as a human face."
22,Even the smallest explosion looks like a nuclear detonation to you.
23,Ogres look incredibly beautiful to you and nymphs seem hideous.
24,Everything you eat tastes like chicken.
25,"Suddenly, only trolls find you to be attractive. When seen by a troll, you will be aggressively sought after for a long term relationship."
26,"You can hear with supernatural precision, but to do so you have to wear the most ridiculous hat anyone has ever seen. In fact, the hat induces immediate laughter to any who see it being worn."
27,"You now have the ability to fly short distances, but only if your eyes are closed."
28,You can't use your eyes and ears at the same time anymore. One must be covered in order to use the other. Trying to use both eyes and ears will result in audio or visual hallucinations.
29,Sitting causes you physical pain - you can only stand up or lay down.
30,Your sneezes produce sparkling dust.
31,Goblins now look like beautiful women.
32,You must give yourself a pep talk every morning.
33,Your most used magic item that requires a verbal component is replaced by an embarrassing nickname.
34,All coins look like gold to you.
35,One language you know is replaced with screaming but you think it’s normal.
36,You don’t believe in having a small fire anymore.
37,The voice of the last person you killed tells you things about their life no one wants to know.
38,Cats meows now sound like orc battle cries to you.
39,Fingernails tell short stories about what you have done clipping/ biting them causes you to forget what happened but eating the nail returns the memory.
40,A talking flea now lives in your nose.
41,The taste of citrus now tastes like blood.
42,Your hair is a kleptomaniac.
43,Your skin becomes hot pink direct sun light.
44,Your eyes look like the eyes of the person you talk to.
45,Your blood is now alabaster white.
46,The sound of a bell turned your known languages into horse neighs.
47,On a full moon you think and act like you have transformed into a lycanthrope but in fact don’t.
48,You think you are the worlds greatest bard.
49,At midnight you recite strange lines from musicals you have never heard.
50,"You are unable to fall asleep anywhere except outside, at night, in a place where the stars are visible."
51,"You are cursed with mildly aggravating misfortune. Once per day out of combat, at random, you make a skill check with disadvantage."
52,"You can no longer conceive of ""eleven."""
53,You lose d4 letters of your name.
54,You lose d6 inches of height.
55,You owe a pound of flesh - you can choose which pound if you remove it yourself.
56,You can only read the written word backwards - usually from right to left.
57,"You cannot use any word beginning with the letter ""t""."
58,You age backwards (but this will not prolong your life).
59,You gain extreme sensitivity to moonlight.
60,"Your childhood pet always appears to you to be in the room, but no one else can see it."
61,"One of your friends was never born, although you retain memories of them."
62,You can no longer form new bird-related memories.
63,Your self-image will always be of whatever you are currently wearing - no matter what you wear you will always see yourself wearing the same clothes.
64,All water tastes oily.
65,You always smell strongly of flowers - it's a little overwhelming.
66,"The concept of death is unbearably sad, so that you burst into tears whenever it comes up."
67,All elves look the same to you.
68,You lose your most treasured memory.
69,"Lose all memories of a loved one. This loved one may be from the character's past, or a future loved one. Tough to recognize, unless this character disagrees with the number of people in a group."
70,You shall spread wealth wherever you go but never hold this wealth yourself.
71,"Your firstborn shall carve out a great destiny but will be taken from you at the moment of its birth, either through the fey arriving and taking it or its mortal body arriving as a still birth and it's soul being born into the fey wild."
72,You shall lead a great Kingdom for 10 years but it will then fall into ruin due to your efforts.
73,"You gain the beauty of the gods as long as you view yourself in a mirror each day, if not your beauty will corrupt into necrotic horror."
74,You shall conceive a full family but lose one of them on their 11th birthday to the fey.
75,Children and animals will always know their location.
76,Character is unable to see the color blue or green as it blends perfectly into the background.
77,Every time the character swears their servitude at the end of their lives extends by 1 year.
78,There will be a surprise when they get home. What they find will belong to the fey in 5 years time.
79,Both of the character's eyes are now the entirely the color of what their irises used to be.
80,The character now unwillingly slips Sylvian words into their everyday speech and cannot be brought aware of it.
81,Vines and leaves will now be sparingly intermingled with the character's hair and body hair.
82,You can no longer go outside unless it's pouring rain.
83,"From now on when you sleep, you will not wake without someone performing the same ceremony. While sleeping you do not age, require sustenance, or suffer non-lethal damage."
84,You age twice as fast. Cutting you time on earth in half.
85,Once every year on the night of the summer solstice you are magically summoned to a place far beyond your recognition. There you will be given one task that you would give your life to complete.
86,You must marry the Fae you are bargaining with.
87,"The would becomes cold, ever so cold. Warmth becomes something impossible for you to feel."
88,One tenth of all gold you earn disappears as a tribute to the Fae.
89,You will become aware of the exact time of your death.
90,Your fist born child will die at the age of eleven. You will have a first born child.
91,A secret will be revealed that will make you hate someone you loved.
92,Your knees become fused. You loose the ability to run.
93,"The character is convinced they can talk to plants, despite having no ability to do so."
94,"Describe or name a specific type of beast. All creatures of this kind are now enamored with you, however you are now slightly allergic to them."
95,The character's ears enlarge when they are caught lying. The character's ears shrink when they tell the truth and are not believed.
96,The character can no longer go to sleep without making a stone circle around themselves.
97,The character glows in artificial light.
98,"The character eats and drinks messily and noisily, no matter how hard the player tries to prevent this."
99,"The character emits a melodious ringing noise every time they yawn, sneeze or burp."
100,The character's eyes are inversed in color; the irises are now white and the whites are the color of the irises.

d100,Entry

1,"If these people bring up my embezzlement, just lie like hell and head for the next town first thing tomorow.'"
2,I just can't get that image of the elf and halfling together out of mind. How does that even work.
3,They'll never find where he's buried.
4,"Ow, my leg kinds of hurts. Oh my god, I'm dying!"
5,I think she suspects. I have to tell her. How do you tell someone they are married to a Gold Dragon?
6,...and I shall call it 'flux capacitor'.
7,I've seen this person in my dreams every night for 5 years.
8,I really need to get this conversation over with - I have to meet with the boss in a little while.
9,"I’m sure they’ve seen the tear in my cloak already. I was hoping to repair it, but I just had to see someone before I had the chance to. I’m sure they think I’m just a slob now."
10,Oh I'm going to befuddle those adventurers so hard!
11,"Did I just step in feces? Wait, is that brain matter?"
12,Kill. (repeated up until the user identifies the threat)
13,"It went well, right? I hope she liked me. What if she didn't? What if she thinks I'm a loser? Oh, gods."
14,Oh Hells I left my sword at home. Something doesn't feel right about this place. I wonder if- BY THE GODS SOMEONE HELP.
15,Erotic thoughts about the user of the spell.
16,"If he says that one more time I am going to scream. He is so irritating. I can't stand him. Oh he has finished...quick, laugh."
17,Maybe the halfling will die next time. It has to happen soon. He is living on borrowed time. We can't carry his ass forever. I wonder if I could wangle his magic dagger?
18,I wonder how long this is all going to take? He will be waiting for me
19,Ow ow ow. This is agony. It hurts so much. I can't show them. They can't know.
20,I think that wench gave me somethin'.
21,Scandal was only ok last night.
22,Half of me wants to know what happened last night while I was drunk and the other half knows I should save time and just leave town and never come back.
23,"Can this guy read my thoughts? AHHHHH. No, he didn't react. Guess not."
24,"Tomato, tomato. It makes no sense! Who the hell pronounces it tomato! (With the DM's choice as to which pronunciation will most set off the party. Expect vigorous out-of-character discussion soon after)."
25,Would you look at those adventurers. Ah I used to be an adventure like that! Until I took an arrow to the knee.
26,"Oh gross, that (PC spellcaster's race) has a bit of spinach stuck in his/her teeth."
27,"Bread, butter, cheese, vegetables, a new cooking skillet...damn, what else was there?"
28,Does anyone really wonder why there are no half dwarves?
29,"Hm, I could eat. Not a lot, but like a snack. Turkey leg maybe? (if PC is kenku or aacrakocra) I wonder what this one would taste like? Is it cannibalism if they're a bird person?"
30,"(Caster) is looking at me kind of weird right now... do I look weird? Smile, nod, look at the lips not the eyes, oh man that's a lot of nosehair."
31,"Thoughts register as a dull roaring sound, followed by a whisper from a voice that manages to be sonorous and rasping- Hello wizard.' The target continues to talk blithely as your mind fills with the roaring and a demented laughter.'"
32,They'll never find the body.
33,"Wait, can they see me watching them?"
34,Boy it'd be a shame if somebody found the horde of gold I dug here last night.
35,The explosive rune should go off in 10...9...
36,Sniggering 'Nobody ever realizes I'm the Prince.'
37,"At last, my most evil plan is coming to fruition. Thank goodness nobody has realized it's me, I'm completely alone."
38,"I just need rope, a pineapple, several iron rods and firewood. That should do the trick."
39,Absolute Nothingness.
40,Somebody playing and replaying a game of dragonchess in their heads.
41,"The image of a person slowly taking off their clothes, followed by shy kissing and then a beautiful love scene at night by a fireplace."
42,Did I leave the stove on?
43,"Gods, he/she (caster's gender) is so hot. I bet he/she would sell for a fortune. Who knows, the slavers might even let me keep the outfit. Looks expensive, I could probably make a bundle just selling that. Alright, first things first, gotta seduce him/her."
44,"...HIJKLMNOP, QRS, TU... Damn it! I keep on forgetting! T. U. A pause ...W? No, that can't be right. Why am I having difficulty with this, I just went over them yesterday! Oh whups, looks like he/she (caster's gender) is staring. There's no way he/she knows, right?"
45,"It just doesn't make sense. Why would there be a fruit called a grapefruit when there is already a fruit called a grape? At the very least, it should be called a grapefruit fruit. To distinguish it better. Distinguish it more. Either or."
46,"Alright, now exhale. Inhale. Exhale again. Inhale. Exhale. Inhale. Subtlety check the area... Oh crap, Inhale. Wait, I already did Inhale, its Exhale now. Exhale. There we go. Inhale. Good, looks like no one has noticed that I'm a mouth-breather."
47,"Did I make a pact with an actual unicorn last night, or was that just a really weird dream?"
48,I wish my mother would pass already.
49,[SO]'s making pot pie tonight! I'm so excited!
50,Who are these stupid awful people talking to me right now?
51,"I didn’t technically steal that locked case, I only found it after it fell off of that merchant’s cart. But I still can’t get anyone to open it for me because they’ll want me to return it or accuse me of theft. Best to just keep it under my bed for now."
52,My nose itches... can they stop talking already?? This is driving me mad.
53,"Oh, they smell. That's disgusting. What is that, three weeks of sewage and dog hair?"
54,Can dwarves even get drunk? That was a bad wager to make.
55,"BE A MAN, must be swift as a coursing river... how does the next bit go? (Or some other song is stuck in their head)"
56,"Now, eggs are cheap right now, so if I get a rooster or two, I can really expand my flock. After a month or two, prices should be back up."
57,I don't get why the Missus is so upset... I thought she wanted a floor scale! I thought she'd like it! What did I do wrong?
58,"I hope Richert's okay. I rarely hear from him these days. I told him the military was a bad choice, but noooo. He had to go leave me with the twins."
59,"Why did I have to be the one to be (NPC's name here)? They're so lame. Next time, I want to be a duke or something. Much more exciting life."
60,These aren't my pants! Why am I wearing someone else's pants?!
61,"Really, does no-one else find Orcish women hotter than all other women. Am I alone on this? I can't be the only one turned on by the tusk's right? Right!?!"
62,"I'm sooo tired! Can't let anyone know, or they'll think they have an advantage in combat!"
63,"If I build a machine with wings, shaped so that the air pressure is higher below the surface of the wing, perhaps I could achieve non-magical flight... no it'll never work. I'll always be a turnip farmer."
64,"Strange. I was sick, then I got better, but my wife got sick soon after. Maybe there's some kind of... tiny little creatures... so small we can't see them... that transmit sickness between people... and common illnesses could be avoided by, say, washing your hands to drown the tiny creatures... let's call them, 'germs'... no, it's ridiculous. I should just get back to farming turnips."
65,"Hmmm. If I could build a spinning device, powered by, say, steam, why not, and attached it to a rod that turned, say, some wheels, and put that together into a machine with room for a person to sit, and maybe, a wheel to steer... ah, too ridiculous. I'll always be a turnip farmer."
66,"If I dropped out of my job and went into farming, I could use my druidic contacts to help cultivate my land, and my discoveries in agriculture to farm the greatest turnips the land has ever seen... no, give it up. You'll always be a poor inventor."
67,I really should take Casey to the doctor. That bump on the head didn't sound good.
68,"If you cut a troll in half, does each half grow into a new troll? Isn't that how worms work?"
69,These pants are tighter than I remember.
70,The cult will not be happy if I don't bring a live owlbear for the ritual... but how would I get one there alive?
71,I wonder what excuse I'll ha e to find to beat my son this time.
72,"I feel that my deity _______ doesn't fit me, maybe I should change my devotion to _______."
73,"I was the one that clogged the outhouse the other day. It was me. And everybody will think it was him, ha!"
74,"I know you're trying to hear what I'm thinking,' as the target stares right at the user."
75,"Dragonborn are just glorified lizardmen who deserve to be treated as such, not as a human. How do they even reproduce? Do they lay eggs? Disgusting."
76,"I have one goal: Assassinate [PC's Name]. Should be easy, right? If only I could find the opportunity, then I can grab that sweet reward."
77,"Cheese, with a .... Pickle, yes, in a sandwich, wait do I have any bread left. Oh I have that nice chutney."
78,"I have been working straight for two weeks and I did his laundry yesterday, he is going to have to let me go for the weekend."
79,"He/She has been so distant lately, and I am sure the bed was made when I left, then again He/She gave me that new belt, that means they still love me surely."
80,"OK, relax. Breathe. No one is looking at me. Blend with the crowd, blend with the crowd, they don't see me, I'm not here. A little closer. Deep breath. And... Go!"
81,"Don't make eye contact, look right past her. Hand it to over and walk away. Easy-peasy. Shit, where is it!? Pockets? No. Jacket? No. Shit. Oh yeah, I remember I put it in my shoe. Thank the gods. ... Why did I put it in my shoe!? How am I supposed to discreetly get anything out of a shoe that has a foot in it!? Ok, privacy, privacy, where can I go? I gotta find an alley."
82,"That's right you idiots, buy my piss bread. Made with 100% organic free range grain fed elven piss. Yeah, smell it you asshole. Mmm, doesn't that smell good. Guaranteed fresh."
83,"God, these people stink."
84,I hope the clerics didn't notice I took some of the tithe...
85,Where's Piero? He was supposed to off the girl and get out of there... Did he get caught?
86,Must...resist...urge to feed... blood...BLOOD...
87,Oh god I said 'You too' when I should have said 'Thank you' now she thinks I'm an idiot. I can't come here ever again.
88,What is he wearing? How do people get to that age and not know how to pick out clothes.
89,If I had only wed Margaret my life would be so much better.
90,"It's such a beautiful day today, maybe I'll stop by the creek to fish later. Oliver would love it if I brought some fresh ones home for him to cook."
91,I wonder how long this is going to take? I have a potion brew that needs dire attention or else it might explode.
92,I hope no one notices my shapeshifting is off today.
93,Only a few more hours till I can add her hair to the shrine...
94,"I brought her flowers, but... what if she didn't like them? Was I being to forward? Like three weeks ago she said something about disliking men who waste their money. Flowers just die. Maybe she thinks I'm a financially incapable idiot I have ruined my chances, oh my god."
95,If I just kept walking off into the woods I wouldn't have to be here anymore. No one would even miss me. It'd be so simple...
96,I can't tell if she noticed I'm wearing my nicest dress today. Maybe I should casually walk by her post again? I woke up an extra hour early just to lace up the bodice she's damn well gonna see it.
97,"A mocking high-pitched repetition of what anyone nearby is saying, followed by 'Jackass'."
98,Today will be different. I'm turning it all around. I'm not going to step foot in a tavern ever again. I'll change and I'll win him back.
99,I can't wait to see her face when I throw that surprise party for her!
100,"If they open that door, I will have to kill them."

d100,Entry

1,A silver dragon scale that glows in the moonlight. It seems almost as if the scale is trying to get back to it's TRUE owner.
2,A silver coin which has been hollowed out and a tiny encrypted message placed inside. An unscrupulous peddler gave it to you as change without knowing why the coin was underweight.
3,"A ""hobo"" gold piece where the face on the coin has been carved into an elegant skull, a guild symbol etched into the back, and a saying in thieves' cant carved around the edge. Once you were targeted by a pickpocket who later returned your purse and apologized in person before fleeing in terror."
4,"A key to a bankbox in a large prestigious bank in a large city far away, and paperwork indicating it has been paid for the next 100 years."
5,"A small leather drawstring bag filled with sixteen beautiful turquoise fetishes. There is a note inside from someone hoping to ""meet up for another game soon""."
6,"A strange long black box with many small buttons labelled in unknown language that fits comfortably in your hand. On the back, the box has a cover protecting a pair of pockets that accommodate two small metallic cylinders."
7,A curious frogmouth purse filled with many unusually shaped dice. A few small figurines of various people and creatures and worthless coins are also in the bag.
8,"A little 5-inch gnome statue, if it gets out of view it almost seems like it's trying to talk to you."
9,A board covered with runes and a silver weight tied to a string. Holding the weight over the board causes it to slowly spell the answer to any question asked. Its never the correct answer just the answer the person asking most wants to hear.
10,"A 3"" x 4"" x 2"" wooden box within which is an ink soaked sponge. Touching the sponge causes inky hand prints to appear on whatever that person has touched for the last hour. The inky prints fade in an hour and can't be washed away. The sponge dries out after one use and must then be refilled with a full vial of ink before it can again be used."
11,"A small green stone. Or red? Wasn't it blue just now? No, it is clearly yellow..."
12,"A shard of a mirror which shows your reflection - or rather, what you think your reflection should look like."
13,"A spool of string, glimmering in the most astounding colours. String becomes invisible as long as music is audible."
14,A white knight chess piece. When the player moves on the battlefield like the knight would move on the chess board it makes a sound of a horse.
15,"A seemingly normal dagger. Whoever, when it hits an enemy, you can almost hear a faint laugh. It might just be your imagination."
16,"A bag of apples, that never seem to go bad. You feel slightly bad after eating one, and that feeling intensifies after each apple. Also, everytime you take a bite, the bag seems to twist in on itself."
17,A musical instrument. It's music gets louder everytime you play it.
18,"A coin pouch. You can put as many coins as you want in it, but you can't take coins from it. The only way to take your coins is to open it with the intention of putting a coin, and then taking as many as you want, except, of course the coin you put."
19,"A boot. It's exceptionally easy to put on, but you need to use all of your strenght to take it off. When you are not wearing it, you have an increasing impulse to put it back on."
20,"A cube, with each side having 9 squares with an eldritch symbol inscribed within the rich oak finish. You can slide the cube around to shift the location of each face to match others. Some of them seem to glow when matched together, but so faint that it must be your imagination."
21,It is a rubiks cube with symbols instead of colours.
22,A fine chain necklace fashioned from links of some strange red metal. The chain retains body heat for an unusually long time.
23,A pocket notebook with cryptic phrases scrawled haphazardly on most of the pages.
24,"A 4"" high wireframe model of a humanoid figure, made out of solder. The figure has an exquisitly detailed copper heart inside the dull ribcage."
25,"A small painting on a necklace chain, the painting is extremely detailed and displays what appears to be a king, when wearing the painting occasionally the vague feeling of not being where you're supposed to be comes over you."
26,"A feather quill. Anything written with this quill will appear in a distinct and unknown handwriting. This unknown handwriting remains the same, regardless of who is writing with the quill."
27,A small pouch of glass marbles. Each marble has the abstract shape of a different animal embedded in the center of the glass.
28,"A large decorative candle. When lit, it gives off an alluring scent which, while impossible to identify, evokes a feeling of nostalgia in anyone who smells it."
29,"A small garden trowel. The blade and handle are made of common, if not poor-quality materials, but the handle is set with a single semiprecious stone."
30,"A sharp tooth as long as your hand, looking at it makes you uneasy."
31,A nail molded into the shape of a sword with pommel in the shape of a wolf's head.
32,"A tiny wooden horse with white hair for a mane and tail, and silver beads for eyes."
33,"An exact replica of your own eyeball, as hard as glass."
34,A pretty amulet which turns out to be a highly offensive symbol to an alien people.
35,"A cup carved from horn which swallows any magical potion or poison poured into it. Once per day the cup can be drunk or from and it will produce the last thing that it swallowed, except for 1 percent of the time it will produce a random other liquid it swallowed sometime in the past."
36,"A mirror with another mirror on its back. When there is a being on both sides of the mirror, it shows each being a representation of the way the other sides being sees it. Disgust produces a disgusting image, admiration an idealistic image ect."
37,A document which shows whatever the observer expects to see but with a few errors (misspellings or other incongruencies).
38,"A glass ball, something seems off. Something should be in the ball but what? Over time the ball fills with a dark liquid and the player has an easier time shaking off ill effects, once full they feel sluggish and find it harder to resist. Going back and forth filling and draining. Treated like a cloak of resistance, reverse when full so like +3 when filling, -3 when draining. Need only be in the players possession."
39,"A small square metal container with d10+5 strange brass cylinders, about a centimetre wide and less than three long. One end of the cylinder is closed, the base encrypted with unknown insignia around a grey round spot in the middle. On the other end there is a small, ball-like metal piece. There seems to be some kind of unknown powder in between, but any attempt to take the cylinders apart results in an explosion, sending pieces flying in a random direction for a couple of metres."
40,"A flute that can either [1 on d6] emit no audible sound (makes the nearest animal hostile), [2 on d6] an extremely high-pitched one, [3 on d6] bass strong enough to cause 1d4 damage in a d6 metre area or [4,5,6 on d6] sound like a regular flute. Hide the rolls."
41,"A fancy dagger with an eye engraved on the hilt. Whenever the dagger is at the very edge of one's vision, they can swear it just blinked."
42,"A coin pouch. It sounds, weighs, looks and feels like it's filled with coins, but upon opening it you discover that it is empty."
43,"A single arrow. It cannot be snapped, dulled or broken. Other than that, it acts like a regular arrow. The person who found it always manages to find it after firing it."
44,A tarnished brass kazoo in the shape of a fish. If blown under water it summons one normal fish of the nearest common variety. It will not summon anything monstrous but who knows what might be chasing the fish that is summoned.
45,"A compass that at first glance doesn't work, just keeps spinning endlessly unless the user is close to a mimic at which it points at. If there are more it points at the closer one."
46,"A whip, when you strike anyone the whip moans loudly. Only the user can hear the moan."
47,A rope that ties itself into a hangmans knot every time it's not watched.
48,A small statue of a gold frog with one eye and a relatively huge mouth. It knows every language and is willing to translate anything you show it but in turn for translating one word it asks to be fed one fresh [insert race] heart.
49,"A rock that looks like a diamond to anybody touching it. Or is it a diamond that looks like a rock to anybody not touching it? The person that created it forgot and has gone crazy trying to figure it out. The user will over time slowly lose his mind over the same questions, obsessing over it, not willing to trade it or sell it."
50,"A necklace, looks like an inverted pentagram and is made of wood. If it comes in contact with blood summons a demon, over which the user has no control."
51,"A silver ring with a fly head, gives a 25% chance that a devil will not consider the user as an enemy (unless the user attacks the devil or does something against it), 25% chance that the devil will be hostile and focus the user and 50% of no effect."
52,"A single earring shaped like a smiling mouth, if worn by a paladin whispers commands and tries to make the paladin break his oath. Can't be removed by any means (including a wish spell) unless the ear is cut off or the oath is broken. If the ear is cut off the user takes no damage and his/her ear regrows. The cut off ear turns to dust. If not worn by a paladin, none of the effects take place."
53,"A half gold half silver coin, gold side has a sun and the silver side has a moon image on it. When used in a heads/tails way it always faces up with what the person throwing it said."
54,"A staff made out of one long bone, ending with a skull which starts screaming when it sees a skeleton."
55,A key that changes its shape after it unlocks something. Beware of railroading as the nature of the key means that certain things will be unlocked in succession.
56,"A spoon that alters the contents of whatever being eaten. It varies from person to person, but using the spoon over extended periods of time begins to alter the appearance of the person eating from it..."
57,A crystal ball able to show you your past.
58,A three-lobed spinning device with almost frictionless ball bearings in the center. ߷ There are holes in the lobes and the center has a raised disk on both sides so the device can be held while it is spinning.
59,"A small pocket watch, whenever someone holds it they swear that they've seen it before."
60,"A small hourglass, the sand inside of it goes up instead of down."
61,A pair of dice that seem to only roll 7s when in close proximity to gold or platinum.
62,"A coin purse that, once a day, will convert all the currency inside to whatever the local common coin is. It won't add or subtract any, and it will leave change of what it can't convert."
63,"A hat with ear flaps that, once ever 1d4 hours, flap as if the hat is trying to fly away."
64,"A pair of boots that leave tracks of a random creature, within 1 size class of the wearer."
65,"A lamp whose light seems to slide around when activated, throwing strange shapes on the wall, like flowing lava. Lamp can only be used for 4 hours before it becomes too hot to handle. After 8 hours, the lamp automatically shuts off and can't be used until the metal cools, which takes 1d4 days."
66,"A cutlery set that makes whatever it's user eats taste delicious, but needs to be meticulously cleaned after every use. The knife will dull, the spoon will shake and spill, and the fork will have tines break off until it is cleaned again."
67,Robes that have the origin map to a secret society of mages who control so near by towns and villages. This map appears on the back of the robes when a wizard wearing the robes cast a spell. The fabric moles itself to reveal the hidden map that can only be reed by those who reed Eleven.
68,"A hardy, darkened conch shell with an almost dangerous amount of ridges and points. By holding the shell up to their ear, the holder can hear rushing water and violent waves with an unusual degree of clarity. Continuing to listen the shell causes the holder to slowly begin to experience sensations of seasickness and a pressure similar to being too deep underwater. As the sensations intensify, a muted, indecipherable whispering can be heard very faintly, as if it were coming from the bottom of the sea. The whispering continues to grow louder while the sensations escalate, until the whispers can almost be made out, at which point the holder falls unconscious for an hour."
69,"A singular, tattered playing card with a very faded face side. When shuffled into a deck being used for a game, it is frequently drawn in the owner's opening hand, with the face side of a valuable card for whichever game is being played. The card roughly matches the design and condition of the deck it was shuffled into when drawn, though it always is in slightly poorer condition than all the others cards. When pulled from the deck, the card is in it's normal, faded state."
70,"A rather large iron pot covered in scratches and scorch marks that can't seem to be taken off. Meals prepared by this pot are always palatable but in need of salt, regardless of whether the recipe called for salt, the consumer's enjoyment of salt, or amount of salt that was used in the cooking. Coincidentally, this effect can be nullified by adding copious amounts of pepper to the pot before serving the meal, in which case the food is always suprisingly delicious."
71,"A small bottle of clear liquid labeled “Knowledge, only use in an emergency”."
72,A tiny stone carving of a headless halfling.
73,A key made of glass.
74,A silver ring with a poem in Druidic on the inside.
75,A tiny bronze idol of a goblin carrying a knife in both hands and one knife clutched in his teeth.
76,"A simple headband with a clear crystal set in the center of the brow. Can emit a red or white light on command. Last two owners were a (now disgraced) Inquisitor who claimed it was a tool for alignment detection, and a dwarven tinkerer who used it as a hands-free work light."
77,"A gnomish cheater bar. A 2 foot long steel bar, designed to mount to the end of wrench handles for extra leverage. Can be used as a club in a pinch, and some gnome combat engineers have modified short swords to fit on the end, making them double as collapsible spears."
78,"A small locket designed for a noblewoman, with small painted portraits of her and her husband on the inside... and an even smaller portrait of her secret lover, in a hidden compartment positioned closest to her own heart."
79,"A small carving knife. Whenever you use it, you will never cut yourself, but you become extremely nervous about cutting yourself until you stop."
80,"A figure of a specific person with its mouth open. When you pour a liquid into it, it spits it out and then screams the name of whatever liquid was in it. However, if the person it resembles was unfamiliar with the liquid, it spits the liquid out, screams for 1d6 minutes, and then closes its mouth for 1d4 days."
81,A mysterious stone that has been shaped to have 20 sides. Each side has a number from 1 to 20. It seems like it’s from another world.
82,A tiny plush owlbear. It’s worn and dirty. It seems like the original owner left it here on purpose.
83,"A picnic basket that seems full of food. Once it’s opened, though, it’s revealed to have a half eaten slice of bread, a tiny cube of cheese, a berry, and one kernel of corn on top of a pile of leaves."
84,An blue orb that when shaken causes a light snowfall 15 feet around the player who shook it.
85,A pin with a picture of a mimic on it. Wearing it will help with stealth checks.
86,A egregiously decorated dagger that looks razor sharp but can't cut through anything. It's also twice as heavy as it should be
87,A normal dice that when rolled always falls on six. Everyone but the user forgets each previous roll if a new one is rolled
88,A blank sheet of paper that cannot be destroyed by anything. If you write on it the words disappear and an answer is written down by an invisible hand.
89,A folding fan with 12 cryptic fortune cookie-like sayings that alternate every time the fan is opened.
90,A mimic ring who will eat a single finger off of any person (but only once per person) will tell a truth that it's current owner wants to know.
91,A gold covered sapphire that opens like a locket to form a mechanical beetle.
92,A whistle that sounds a random note when blown into.
93,A small hourglass that automatically flips when the sands run to the bottom.
94,"A teapot that is always full and piping hot, and whistles sadly if it is ever left alone.(edited)"
95,A cooking spoon that adds a cinnamon flavor to every dish.
96,A lamp whose color changes subtley with the holders mood.
97,A keying that is always in your pocket when you cannot find it.
98,An elaborate fountain pen that turns into a snake and slithered around when not being used.
99,Shards of broken glass that seem to push against each other. You can work out that there was a hammer painted on the glass at some point.
100,A small smooth stone that seems to hum and vibrate when near a rakshasa.

d100,Entry

1,Give regards/news to loved one.
2,Find the killer.
3,Kill the killer.
4,Finish reading/writing a book/journal.
5,See a child/mentee get married/graduate.
6,Fix the error in the formula they were writing.
7,See someone/something they were waiting for.
8,Get a law changed.
9,Harvest crops of a dilapidated farm.
10,Finish an aria.
11,Make amends.
12,Figure out where they heard that music that was going through their head when they died.
13,Overcome their fear of death.
14,Realize they are actually dead (à la Sixth Sense).
15,See the ocean one last time after dying in the middle of the desert.
16,See land again after being trapped for centuries on a ghost ship.
17,Finish climbing that damn mountain that killed them.
18,Find that one last item that would have completed their (very esoteric) collection.
19,Tell the person who killed them that they are forgiven.
20,Say goodbye to their pet 🙁
21,Make sure their lineage remains pure and the children are responsible with their inheritance.
22,See how the village is doing.
23,See all of their family.
24,Find that stupid treasure they have been venturing for all of their life.
25,"They were listening to a beautiful song when they died, they need to hear how it ends."
26,Possess a commoner for one last bout of carousing (maybe a PC?).
27,"Preserve their tattoos, possibly through some very gross taxidermy (They tell a very important story)."
28,Find what was at that damn spot marked out on the old map they found.
29,Tell their kid not to follow in their footsteps.
30,Return a stolen good to its original owner.
31,Have a treasured possession buried with their corpse.
32,"Dead chef ghost, cannot rest until he proves his signature dish is better than his still living rivals dish."
33,Can't remember if they've left the oven on or not.
34,To reconcile their taxes.
35,Guide them up from the underdark to the surface to see the sun one last time.
36,"Show them that their family / bloodline was not, as they believe, wiped out, by bringing them to observe their descendants."
37,(Evil ghost) Show them that their reign of terror in life is all but forgotten--that they have not been remembered--by bringing them to the cheerful village that they terrorized in life.
38,"They always paid respects to their grandmother on the anniversary of her death, never missed a year until they died. They need to pay their respects one last time."
39,"Their children didn’t pay respects to their grave this year, or the year before. If their children honor their grave one last time, they can pass on."
40,Find their corpse (and therefore discover their cause of death).
41,Pass on the code words to enter their secret society.
42,Remember their own name.
43,"Fulfill their lifelong goal of opening a quaint little bakery, flower shop or barber."
44,Get their buddy laid.
45,Have their funeral rites read and their body laid to rest.
46,"See the sunrise one last time, yet is only on the material plane during the night."
47,Say a final goodbye to family/spouse.
48,To finish the last menial task they had to do.
49,To help their loved one on their adventures.
50,To confess their love for someone they were too afraid to tell while alive.
51,Find the answer to a complex riddle/puzzle.
52,Repair a broken weapon that is part of their family lineage.
53,Find where they buried their life savings and bequeath it to their loved ones.
54,Make sure their family is moved to a better settlement with greater opportunities.
55,Murder their former spouse.
56,Find their missing child whom they were already looking for when they died.
57,Have proper funeral rites read from a priest of their chosen religion.
58,Their town was infested by (insert monster) and needs to be cleansed for them to move on.
59,Be acknowledged for their accomplishments by someone of great import.
60,Willingly receive a proper exorcism.
61,Finish their script for a play they wrote.
62,Feel someone's intimate embrace once more through a willing participant's possession.
63,Change someone's mind about a controversial topic.
64,Have their own mind changed about a controversial topic.
65,Recover the sword of Life Stealing that took his father's life. It was last seen on a tiefling barbarian.
66,To find the purchase agreement of the family farm. It was sold illegally as part of Magistrate Vorkain's rise to power.
67,To take one more breath of air (don't we all?).
68,"Agnor roams the streets of the city in search of the descendants of Bilgurym, the thief that killed him over his coin purse. Agnor won't rest until every descendant of Bilgurym is slain. Bilgurym was slain 500 years prior and yet Agnor still roams the foggy streets of the city."
69,Ghost of famed pirate. Won't rest until his illegitimate boy is made a cabin boy on board a pirate ship.
70,Artur Deghnd was killed because of mistaken identity. He now wants his name cleared and Artur Dehnt properly punished.
71,"Werarod of Cretten is the son of a local lord. Werarod became infatuated with a local peasant girl named Elyss. When she spurned him, he took her by force. When he realized his actions, he took his own life. Now he cannot rest until Elyss is happily married."
72,Drivia henpecked her husband until her death from wasting disease. She can't rest until her husband 'makes something of himself'.
73,"A pianist cut his own hands off to escape an abandoned dungeon, his keepers having long since fled. He didn't get far but he regretted every moment he spent without his dexterous, spindly hands. The ghosts asks that you find his rotting hands within the dungeon and bring them back to him. Bonus: the ghost will settle for any pair of hands you give him."
74,Rid the world of a magical item that is not easily destroyed.
75,Escort their spirit across the Astral Plane to lay their soul to rest.
76,"A pirate captain was burying his treasure when he happened upon a lovely Nymph. He sought her out each month and soon they both fell in love. He was already betrothed, but this was an arranged marriage and he wasn't happy. The Nymph and captain were to wed in secret when the jilted fiance shows up in a fiery flash. She cursed the cheating fiance to forever sail the seas and to never step foot on dry land. To the Nymph, she cursed her to become a wooden figurehead. The clause of the curse was this: True love would never be found as long as the white sands fall down. The captain piloted the 'Cursed Heart' ship and when he died, became a sorrowful ghost. Somewhere on another ship, the nymph comes alive only for one hour a night on a full moon. The cursed heart will always attack the Sea Nymph in order to take the wooden figurehead. The sorceress (jilted fiance) guarded the never-ending hourglass at the top of her tower. When she died, she became a Banshee guarding the last thing she loved... the curse."
77,Bring their bones to their ancestor's tomb.
78,"A young child was lost in a forest. His father searched desperately for him, but could never find him. He angrily began chopping down the forest, looking for his son. Now dead, his ghost will not rest until the entire forest is chopped down or burned to ash."
79,A royal ghost won't rest until their rightful heir sits upon the throne.
80,"A child lost in the winter passed away from the cold. They can't move on until they are reunited with their parents, but they were lost decades ago and don't remember who their parents are."
81,A soldiers ghost can't move on until the war is over and his side is at peace.
82,A wandering ghost won't be able to move on alone. They await another lost soul with which they can depart the world together.
83,Wants their body/bones burned and the ashes thrown into the air from the highest peak of the world.
84,They want to create a weapon worthy of a name.
85,"They want to make contact with a greater deity to learn where their soul will be sent. Regardless of the answer, they move on whether they want to or not."
86,They want to possesses a very powerful creature/person.
87,This ghost had no reflection and wants to see their face as it is now.
88,The ghost had started a religion based on a newly discovered deity. They want a church built and a small following of said religion.
89,They had died in the most heinous way. They will not rest until they see someone die in a worse way.
90,They never left their hometown in life. They want to see the rest of the world.
91,They never defeated their rival family. They cannot rest until that family lineage is completely erased from the world.
92,They lost their sight at a young age. They want to see the beauty of the world again.
93,A powerful wizard died after losing their spellbook. It had many powerful spells and if it were to fall into the wrong hands it could be terrible. They want you to find and destroy it.
94,A ghost of a shunned race has never been accepted in the city/kingdom they grew up in. They want the cities leader to recognize them and their kind as full fledged citizens.
95,A ghost is now stuck in this miserable afterlife for their greediness. They need to give away their vast amount of riches to charity in order to move on.
96,Finish a masterpiece work of art.
97,Finish crafting a magical contraption.
98,Finish the conversation they were having before they died.
99,Killing themselves never took. They need to figure out a way to destroy their soul as well.
100,They were creating a brand new board game/card game/table-top game. They need a group to test it out and make it a final product.

d100,Entry

1,Most Likely To Retire Early
2,Most Likely To Catch On Fire
3,Most Likely To Sell Their Soul
4,Most Likely To Become Immortal
5,Most Likely To Work For A Beholder
6,Most Likely To Marry A Doppelgänger
7,Most Stealthy
8,Most Likely To Arm Wrestle An Orc
9,Most Likely To Be Eaten By A Mimic
10,Most Likely To Start A Cult
11,Most Likely To Join A Cult
12,Most Likely To Be Arrested
13,Most Likely To Arrest Someone
14,Most Likely To Meet The King
15,Most Likely To Be Publicly Executed
16,Most Likely To Ascend To Godhood
17,Most Likely To Slay A Dragon
18,Most Likely To Marry A Dragon
19,Most Likely To Be Resurrected
20,Most Likely To Defeat A Lich
21,Best Sword Fighter
22,Best Spellcaster
23,Most Agile
24,Most Likely To Die To Falling Rocks
25,Most Likely To Be Granted A Wish
26,Most Likely To Be Charmed
27,Most Likely To Resort To Cannibalism
28,Most Likely To Lead An Army
29,Most Likely To Become A Teacher
30,Most Likely To Commit A War Crime On Accident
31,Most Likely To Commit A War Crime On Purpose
32,Most Likely To Get A Bounty On Their Head
33,Most Likely To Rescue A Princess
34,Most Likely To Kidnap A Princess
35,Most Likely To Get Lost At Sea
36,Most Likely To Start A Duel
37,Most Likely To Die In A Duel
38,Most Likely To Pass Out Drunk In An Alley
39,Most Likely To Get Lost
40,Most Likely To Injure Themselves
41,Most Likely To Own A Tavern
42,Most Likely To Destroy A Tavern
43,Most Likely To Be Worshipped By Tribals
44,Most Likely To Discover Long-lost Knowledge
45,Most Likely To Go Insane
46,Most Likely To Get Trapped In Another Dimension
47,Most Likely To Move To Another Dimension
48,Most Likely To Be Forgotten
49,Most Likely To Sacrifice A Virgin
50,Most Likely To Be Sacrificed
51,Mest Climber
52,Best Swimmer
53,Best Archer
54,Most Charming
55,Most Dangerous
56,Most Likely To Get Framed
57,Most Likely To Be Permanently Disfigured
58,Most Likely To Practice Necromancy
59,Most Likely To Die To A Trap
60,Most Likely To Be Manipulated
61,Best Ocean Navigator
62,Best Subterranean Navigator
63,Most Likely To Summon A Demon
64,Most Likely To Win A Dance-off
65,Most Likely To Lose A Dance-off
66,Most Likely To Murder An Innocent
67,Most Likely To Rob A Shop
68,Most Likely To Sink A Ship
69,Most Likely To Use Disguises Regularly
70,Most Likely To Gain A Nickname
71,Most Likely To Be Buried In A Proper Grave
72,Most Likely To Fight In An Arena
73,Most Likely To Die Shortly After Succeeding
74,Most Likely To Forget Their Own Name
75,Most Likely To Disappear Without A Trace
76,Most Likely To Destroy An Entire Village
77,Most Likely To Do Something Catastrophically Wrong
78,Most Likely To Do Something Catastrophically Right
79,Most Likely To Have An Evil Twin
80,Most Likely To Sacrifice Themselves To Save Another
81,Most Likely To Date A Different Species
82,Most Likely To Lose An Artifact Of Great Power
83,Most Likely To Explode Without Warning
84,Most Likely To Frame Themselves To Hide A Different Crime
85,Most Likely To Be Enslaved
86,Most Likely To Enslave Something
87,Most Likely To Prevent The Apocalypse
88,Most Likely To Start The Apocalypse
89,Most Likely To End The Apocalypse
90,Most Likely To Polymorph Permanently
91,Most Likely To Start A War
92,Most Likely To End A War
93,Most Likely To Tame Everything They Encounter
94,Most Likely To Commit A Hate Crime
95,Most Likely To Be The Target Of A Hate Crime
96,Most Likely To Found A Village
97,Most Likely To Be The Subject Of An Epic
98,Most Likely To Write An Epic
99,Most Likely To Develop An Unhealthy Obsession
100,Most Likely To Eat Anything They Kill

d100,Entry

1,"The afflicted thinks every other creature is more powerful than it, and treats them with either respect or fear."
2,"The afflicted thinks its power became overwhelming, and hardly ever attacks out of fear of breaking the world."
3,"You realize you are in a game, and everything that makes you the person you are is just a collection of numbers and a few sentences on a sheet of paper."
4,The insane person suffers from extreme paranoia and treats ALL creatures as 'hostile.'
5,"The afflicted has memory issues. Whenever he needs to remember something, roll a d4. If the result is a 1, the person forgets everything about it."
6,"The afflicted is bipolar. Every 1d20 hours, roll 1d10. If the result is even, the person acts overly friendly. If it's odd, the person tends to be aggressive."
7,"The effected believes everything to be a conspiracy- this town is run by doppelgangers, the king is a dragon in disguise, the Gods aren't real, etc."
8,The effected develops a pathological hate of ducks.
9,"The effected suffers from autocannabalism, and finds the taste of their own flesh more delicious than anything else."
10,The effected hears the constant sound of rolling dice.
11,The effected hears the voice of their grandmother (or similar familial character) occasionally telling them to kill people.
12,"The effected doesn't feel safe alone, and will panic unless accompanied by another character."
13,"The effected develops triskaidekaphobia, an irrational fear of the number 13."
14,The effected develops a drinking problem.
15,"The effected suddenly overcomes an addiction or other character flaw, then suffers a violent outburst 1d4 days later."
16,The affected develops trypophobia.
17,"The character develops narcolepsy. Every 1d20 hours, roll a 1d8. If the result is 3 or lower, the character falls asleep for 1 hour, and sleepwalks 1d4 x 20 feet in a random direction at any moment during that hour."
18,After taking damage the afflicted behaves as though under the confusion spell the following round.
19,The affected person seems to think they have switched bodies with the first person they see every day.
20,"The victim, in their madness, cannot comprehend words unless spoken completely backwards."
21,The affected has an unnatural obsession with black hair.
22,"The affected person sincerely believes they can cast the Wish spell at will, and tries to cast it frequently."
23,"The afflicted grows to believe their skin is incredibly durable, and refuses to wear armor of any kind."
24,"The affected, when addressed by name, will paralyze themselves in fear until left completely alone."
25,The maddened individual will feel compelled to spout nonsense in the middle of their sentences.
26,The character now only talks in third person.
27,"The PC can see and hear other NPC(s) interacting with them sometimes, only they are actually hallucinations. The PC is unaware that they are hallucinations to start out, but may learn that later."
28,The afflicted finds everything to be absolutely delicious.
29,You start with nightmares of charnel hounds catching you and tearing at your flesh. Upon waking you can still hear them growling and breathing behind you. The symptoms become so severe that you hallucinate being attacked by the hounds and can feel pain (1d6 psychic damage) when they bite.
30,Your character develops the paranoid delusion that a random party member is always watching them.
31,"Your character is convinced they are a Lycanthrope, and will seek out a cure. On a full moon, they will shed their clothes and try to bite people. If your character IS a Lycanthrope, they believe they aren't."
32,"Your character is convinced they are the Chosen One of the first prophecy they hear, and will seek to fulfill their destiny no matter how impossible."
33,"Your character will occasionally 'speak to camera', do voiceover narration for events currently occurring, and sometimes speak their thoughts aloud, exactly as though they are a character on a TV show... they believe the Gods are watching their adventures for entertainment."
34,"The afflicted is incredibly terrified of the dark because of the unspeakable creatures and horrific sounds that exist there, so they always carry some form of light and are likely to freak if it ever goes out."
35,"The afflicted is completely convinced that they have been made god over something incredibly small, specific, and pointless, and they make sure everyone knows about their newfound divinity."
36,"The afflicted knows, without a doubt, that they are the real, biological parent of someone else (ideally, a PC); and they want to make it up to their child for never having realized this before."
37,The afflicted has made a startling realization: everyday is a different holiday! And they mean to celebrate the holiday with the most passion and fervor ever seen. (modified: changed condition)
38,"The afflicted sees everything as being in a slightly different physical place than it actually is. It’s a tiny, almost insignificant different, but It is very noticeable when in direct conversation with them because they never make actual eye contact. They look the smallest bit away."
39,"The afflicted has seen the errors of popular belief and have decided to be as counter to the norm as possible. They might refer to everything in opposite terms (like saying “down” for “up), wear clothes backwards or upside-down, or in extreme cases, even do the exact opposite of what they think others desire of them."
40,"The afflicted does not think they exist anymore and does not believe people can notice, perceive, or interact with them. When spoken to or observed, they don’t believe it—others must be interacting with something nearby. It’s just a coincidence! Physical touch of any type is ignored, and if physically moved or hurt, the afflicted believes they must be hallucinating or having a vivid dream."
41,"The afflicted believes that they know someone of great importance (ideally, someone the PCs are needing to meet/encounter/etc.), but they cannot ever lead anyone to this person. They are happy to speak about them, provide insights about this person, and even regale others of stories that involved the two together. However, they can never disclose the physical location of the person or lead others to the person because if they do, they believe they will break their end of some bargain and something terrible will occur."
42,"Your character begins to feel that their self worth is elevated, almost in a euphoric state as their false confidence causes them to be too confident in their abilities."
43,The afflicted believes that their hands and feet have been replaced with spoons.
44,"The afflicted person believes he suffers from spontaneous combustion, and whenever there's a talking bit, he has to roll whether he is fine, or spends the entire chat rolling on the floor and screaming."
45,"The inflicted player is convinced their lives and everything in their world is controlled by giant gods that surround them at all times. The PC will occasionally hear giant boulder size rocks roll somewhere, before something happens."
46,You will have an obsession with flipping a gold coin for every decision you make.
47,You start spinning and humming 'Twinkle-twinkle' for hours on end.
48,You find a pineapple (or any available fruit) named 'Wilson' that speaks for you now.
49,You believe every full moon you turn into a were-rabbit that craves cheese.
50,"When you sleep, you dream of a lake of fire. It's the same dream every night. You know it exists somewhere in the world. When you wake, you can feel it pulling you, calling to you. You do everything in your power to travel to this lake. DM decides how far away it is. You know it's the right lake when you get there. Once you arrive, you find it to be very much so not on fire. Take 3d10 psychic damage as you struggle to reconcile this, and the madness ends."
51,"You now believe you are the physical incarnate of the deity you have devoted your life to. Alternatively for classes not devoted to a deity, you now believe you are a deity worthy of devotion, gain the ability to cast prestidigitation (poorly) to prove your divinity to those foolish enough to question your power!"
52,The person feels like someone is watching them constantly and cause him/her to shoot out random things in any random direction
53,"The afflicted thinks that party members are close relatives (father, mother, brother etc.)"
54,"The afflicted becomes overly critical against the party members, and mocks and insults them even for the slightest mistake."
55,"The afflicted starts thinking selfness is the only way to get home alive, and will always choose what is better for him and not for the whole party. He will always refuse to share things."
56,"The afflicted start going irrational, talking about his past and commenting everything in weird ways, using terms like madness, darkness, void, etc."
57,"Character develops 'Object is God' disorder: first stage, they hear voices. As they tear about, one voice comes through more strongly than the rest, from a certain direction. Whatever the direction, they wander, until a doll or stuff item is found. The voice they've been hearing, 'attaches' itself to the item, and 'speaks' through it. The item then MUST be obtained. Finally, any choice the inflicted makes must be made through the toy."
58,"Character becomes extremely sadistic. Deaths elicit the most laughter - the gorier, the more happiness is achieved."
59,"A fear of growing older is instilled in them--and a desperation to never grow feeble. Impatience is formed as a result of the knowledge that with every passing second they are slowly dying, and as such they have a short fuse."
60,"They must save everyone! When asked 'from what', the response is 'from evil!' before trying to murder everyone."
61,"Afflicted develops an uncontrollable fear of water, including ice and bottled water. He may even let himself die of thirst."
62,"Character starts worshipping a deity referred to simply as 'The Game Master', who supposedly controls everything about the world, except for the party."
63,"Character develops a compulsion for feeding any creature it sees, with whatever is at hand."
64,"The affected is convinced that he/she is a vampire, and will seek out humanoid blood. Also takes 1d4 psychic damage per minute of sun exposure, and believes the image of him/herself in mirrors is an illusion."
65,"The person decides to create a massive loot hoard, not unlike ones in a red dragon den. Person will take any gold and valuables they see, by whatever means they see fit, and then take them to their home."
66,"The afflicted character verbalizes all of their internal thought processes unless they put a concerted effort into not doing so. While suppressing the verbalization of their thoughts, they have disadvantage on skill checks and saves, cannot cast Concentration spells, and speak in strained and broken sentences."
67,The afflicted believes their body parts have separate personalities and spends most of their time trying to broker peace between them.
68,"The affected pc adopts the personality of another character, and fully believes that they are that character. Lasts until cured, or the effect wears off."
69,"The affected believes that they can talk to their weapon. If the affected does not have a weapon, then they believe themselves to be able to communicate with another party members weapon."
70,"The afflicted is plagued by night terrors that comprise of all the ways the afflicted might die that next day. Paranoid to the point of hysteria, they do everything with incredible fear and caution, often mumbling about the many ways whatever they're doing might kill them."
71,"The afflicted finds the most inconvenient things to be absolutely hilarious, bursting into cacophonic laughter at the worst times."
72,"The afflicted never lets one of their senses function properly because they falsely believe that they are better without that sense. Their self-imposed handicap has become their good luck charm and security blanket, although it actually makes them worse, so they fight tooth-and-nail to never use whatever sense they have shunned."
73,"The afflicted is convinced they hold multiple personalities in their psyche, except all the personalities act exactly the same in every respect and the only difference is that each personalities' name differs by one letter."
74,"The afflicted has developed a pitiful version of photographic/eidetic memory where they only clearly remember things when in near-death situations, so they actively seek lethal or painful experiences in order to use their incredible recollection abilities."
75,"The afflicted fears that lying in any way spells their end and have become genuine and honest to a fault. They say whatever is on their mind, though with obvious terror, shame, or hesitation."
76,"The afflicted believes they have extra, imaginary appendages, and they try to use whatever extra limb they believe they have, which obviously never works."
77,"The afflicted has realized that fate rules everything and nothing is not predestined. They are incredibly melancholic and fatalistic, and they must be driven and prodded into action to do anything other than sigh and accept their fate."
78,"The afflicted obsessively takes up the ambition of being a writer, and they neurotically write everything down for some ambiguous chronicle that they are always working on."
79,"The afflicted is convinced that everyone else is flirting with them somehow, and they are appalled at how libido-driven everyone seems to be. Ironically, they become terrible at hitting on people."
80,The afflicted's sense of time is confused. They speak of the past as if it's in the future and has yet to happen. They speak of the future in past tense. And they have very little grasp of the present moment.
81,"The afflicted becomes a mild pyromaniac. They have to make a CD 8 Wis check every time they see a fire. On a fail, they try to spread that fire once they are safe to do so."
82,"The character partially loses the sense of hunger. Every 1d20 hours, they have to make a CD 8 Wis check. On a fail, they believe to be extremely hungry, and will do anything they can to get a meal."
83,"The affected becomes addicted to the first smell that reaches their nose. If they are not able to smell it every 12 hours, they become violent."
84,"The character reverses alignment every last day of the month. If they are in any way neutral, throw 1d4. Odd makes evil or chaotic, even makes them good or lawful."
85,"The afflicted believes to be in a dream, and is constantly trying to wake up. However, they are too afraid to try to commit suicide in order to wake."
86,"The afflicted has a dream, in which they see their own death, in a rather specific way. The DM decides what the dream is like, so it is exactly like a situation the party will go through. The afflicted then recognizes the scene, and panics."
87,"The character is suddenly attracted to their own image, even though they don't recognize it. They try to talk to themselves in the mirror, fully believing it's a different person, and the love of their life."
88,The person grows extremely afraid of gravity. Even a tiny unevenness makes them pee their pants.
89,"The afflicted grows an interest for poetry, and starts making their own, terrible poems."
90,"The afflicted is convinced they know a lot about subjects they only know a little of, and makes a lot of assumptions to fill their knowledge's holes."
91,"The character believes they have an angel on one shoulder, and a demon on the other. Both of which represent a side of their consciousness, and gives their respective advices. The character doesn't know which is which."
92,"The person believes they are getting older way faster than others, and that their physical capacities are decreasing as well."
93,The character thinks they suddenly changed gender.
94,"The afflicted thinks it's rude to drink or eat in public, and will hide from anyone else before they do one of these things."
95,"The afflicted suddenly 'remembers' they are a double agent, meant to strike down whoever the party is working for, and their party members are part of the scheme, just don't remember it."
96,"The person is convinced that the end is near, and there's nothing they can do to stop it. So, they decide to live the rest of their days as hedonistically as possible."
97,"The person believes to be aging backwards, and getting progressively younger, They mistake signs of senescence for signs of youth."
98,"The person believes they are a polymorphed metallic dragon, stuck in human form. They set out to fix their 'curse'."
99,"Whenever you meet a new character, roll 1d8: 01: You see everything they do in a negative light; 2: You feel compelled to steal from this person, regardless of the circumstances. This effect then transfers to them, and they feel compelled to steal from you. It will not transfer again after this; 3: You see the character as being extremely ugly. Make a WIS save. On a failed save, you have disadvantage on all rolls related to anything other than that character, as you're too focused on them; 4:You feel extremely apathetic towards them. You don't care about anything that happens to them, or what they do; 5: You feel compelled to protect the character at all costs, through whatever means you feel will be most effective; 6: you find the character extremely attractive, regardless of their appearance or your sexuality; 7: The character is now your new 'best friend'. You cannot help but find similarities between the two of you, and you care a great deal about them as a person, as well as their opinion of you. Any compliments or gifts you receive from them are elating, and any insults they give deal 2d4 emotional damage, which heals over 1d6 hours; 8: You feel no special way towards this character."
100,"Afflicted character's psyche shatters and dissolves as the character starts losing body functions. Roll 1d20 for each of these conditions: Memory loss; Loss of sight; Loss of taste; Loss of touch sense; Loss of hearing; Speech loss; Motor problems; Schizophrenia. The rolls count as a CD10 Constitution check. In case of a fail, roll 1d8 (or any appropriate dice) to determine how many weeks that effect lasts."

d100,Entry

1,"A group of miners are protesting outside a noble’s estate over poor work conditions. They are all covered in coal dust, holding signs that say 'NO ORE NO MORE'."
2,"A noble invites the players to a house party. The noble, a female Dwarf named Bronsyl, wants the party to pretend they are the noble's friends to impress the other nobles at the party."
3,"An older gentleman is yelling at his young apprentice for making a mistake. The older man walks away angrily, while the young apprentice, a male Half-Elf named Sylzaren, is left standing there distraught."
4,"You see the city guards raid a store. Guards preventing people from coming close say that it’s a front for illegal activities. Rumors are that the owners ticked off the wrong person, forgot to pay protection money, and the guards are corrupt."
5,A child with an obvious injury begging for money pleads to the party for money. Later that day the party sees the same kid running around playing tag.
6,"A terrified ex-Warlock begs the party for help, their old patron sends shadow mastiffs after them every night to kill them. They have not slept in days. Killing the hounds doesn't stop them coming back the next night."
7,"Street sign posts keep moving about in the night, causing confusion. Locals thought it was kids messing around but then 3 people were found hanged from sign posts in one night. Each victim had a compass on their person."
8,People keep seeing the same thing out of the corner of their eye. A hideous naked old woman with putrid wounds stands watching until looked at directly when she disappears. only one person sees her at a time.
9,"A wealthy merchant offers to pay one of the PC to be the target of a special spell then get them selves arrested so that they can pass the spell effects to another prisoner. The merchant says they will also pay whatever the bail is, but will actually only pay up to 10gp."
10,A local alchemist shop has caught fire! There is panic in the streets! Water could make the chemical blaze worse. Someone help!
11,"A trinket shop has been ransacked and the PCs know the individual that did it (somebody they like). This individual was being mind controlled, and they were caught specifically stealing an ancient censer linked to a forgotten cult."
12,"As the group walks down the street, they see a Goblin arguing with three guards. Apparently, while apprehending a criminal, the guards heavily damaged the goblins market stand and he demands reparation."
13,"On this street corner, a zealot follower of Helm( or insert god who had bad relations with Orc gods) tries to whip up a mob into a frenzy. Their goal is to lead this mob into the Foreign Quarter and kill any Orc they find. A small force of Guards tries to deescalate the situation."
14,"Three well dressed young men are bullying an old beggar sitting by an alleyway. They kicked his begging bowl over and insult him. If the players decide to step in, the three will begrudgingly stop. They all wear the symbol of a rather influential House."
15,"Two philosophers are having a debate by a street corner. They loudly discuss what does or doesn't constitute a 'Sandwich'. As the group walks by, the older of the two waves you over and asks your opinions on the matter."
16,"A totally drunk half-orc tries to get on his wagon and drive away. His Halfling friend tries to stop him, to no avail."
17,"A rather awkward young man, who looks like he hasn't slept in days, approaches a single character. He asks them to kill him, but wants to be taken unaware. If the player doesn't want to do that, he will pester them for the time they spent in the city, stalking them."
18,"Ricardo, a human Bard, is trying to woe Francesca, the leader of the Fighters Guild. Two things are working against Ricardo though: Francesca already has a secret fiancé and Ricardo isn't as good of a bard as he thinks."
19,"A Tiefling merchant selling potions out of a travelling wagon. When asked about the origin of the potions, only vague answers are given. Rouges with ties to the local Thieves Guild might know them."
20,"Some young men have stolen a large keg of what they think is ale. They are pushing it laboriously up a steep hill, joking and grunting from the effort. A few minutes later a frantic alchemist can be seen running around asking if anyone has seen a barrel of Alchemists Fire that has disappeared."
21,"A golem is trudging in a treadmill. Suddenly, the mill comes off its axle. The mill and the golem propelling it, shoot forwards wobbling into the town and picking up speed."
22,"A pair of wagon drivers are preparing to race down the main street of the town. The street has been mostly cleared, although clearly by local gangs rather than any legitimate authority. There is a large amount of betting going on about who is going to win."
23,"A local ditch digger found an inanimate Shield Guardian buried in rubbish in a sewer out spill. The Guardian has a distinctive motif on their shield, chest and helmet. The ditch digger is offering a reward to anyone that finds the device that controls the Guardian."
24,"While walking down the street, the adventurers hear a large crash then yelling coming from a nearby shop. Upon further investigation, they discover a woman's child had damaged expensive goods in the shop and the merchant won't let them leave until the mother pays up."
25,"You’ve arrived in town for the annual harvest festival. Pie eating contests, catching greased pigs, and other fair activities are happening all around you."
26,A young nobleman is trying to beat his drinking habit. He wants you to stay with him and not let him drink.
27,A boy hoping to impress a girl begs you to pretend to harass her and then pretend to be driven off when he intervenes.
28,Two competing chefs want an impartial judge to decide whose creation is more delicious.
29,"You have apparently entered the foreign quarter, as the background chatter becomes unintelligible and the pedestrians more exotic. Some kids in the street lose control of the ball they were playing with and upset a board game two elderly gentlemen are sitting around. You don't understand what the men are screaming about, but it looks like the kids are learning some new words as well."
30,"The beasts of burden (can be horses, griffins, drakes, whatever) pulling a carriage have gotten spooked or agitated by nothing in particular, and the driver can't get them back under control."
31,"A crier, news board or booksellers stall proudly touts the newest tract in an ongoing pamphlet war between two mages which is clearly centered more around a mutual personal grudge than whatever arcane theory they're arguing over."
32,"Two lovebirds with disapproving parents meet in secret. They could be separated by social class, different races, or feuding families."
33,"A religious party is preaching about a god you are not familiar with. It quickly becomes apparent to people proficient with religion he is only preaching nonsense, but many people are paying attention to him."
34,"A beehive falls from a building, and the bees begin to harrass a passing noble. The noble seems to believe your party has something to do with the falling beehive."
35,"There is a project to demolish a condemned building, however the plan fell thru. The demolish crew is now wondering how they can remove the building (safely)."
36,"A sewer grate bursts open, and 1d6+3 swarms of rats burst out of it. Underneath, a druid is leading them to overrun a business that has been rumored to pollute the nearby river. These rumors' however turn out to be false."
37,A protest is taking place after it was revealed the local priest had a mistress. The priest is attempting to skip town and may attempt to bribe to party for assistances.
38,An apple seller's cart has broken down in front of a tanner's shop. The tanner is not happy about it and has started crushing apples.
39,Someone is stealing the coins from a well or fountain that people toss coins in for good luck.
40,A group of monks are showing off fancy fighting moves but one of them looks like they're making things up and is looking around nervously. This person is trying to show someone special they've changed. They haven't.
41,"After the players walk by an open door in the city, on an abandoned street, a player with a Very high passive perception barely sees a tentacles reach out and close the door quietly after they pass. It's the house of a former Warlock and after she died the house has remained sentient and... tentacled. Quite friendly, if shy and full of disturbing stories."
42,"One of the players trip on a loose cobble. Underneath it there is a strange coin and as soon as they pick it up they begin to hear children laughing, very clearly as if they were close, but there is no one here. They cannot discard the coin any way except by making someone else trip over it."
43,As the players pass by a furniture store a small table hurriedly runs out and walks quietly behind the party. The store owner gives chase and accuses the PCs of theft and the city guard seems in agreement. Turns out there is a faery-base mage/warlock/bard with an Animate Object spell who has been having a delirious amount of fun doing this to innocent people all over town.
44,"Some obvious mobsters want to throw a surprise party for their Boss, but there is ZERO chance this won't lead to a surprising amount of bloodshed so they need to hire some DURABLE people to handle the first few rounds after yelling SURPRISE!"
45,"City Guard is inspecting the feet of anyone who comes into town, assisted by a terrified looking academic. On the shoes of the lowest INT player is a Bookworm, that literally eats magical books. This player is arrested by a previously unknown Library Police and made to stand trial for their crimes against education and learning. ONE PC may act as their barrister. One unbelievably nerdy trial later and the fine turns out to be something like 42cp, a fixed price and obviously a nerdy inside joke of some sort."
46,"Everywhere the party's toughest character goes in town, they seem to always accidentally be standing under or next to the image of a Mind Flayer. Even when it seems like they aren't, it turns out they're in the Mind Flayer section, or the Tentacle Room, or in the Tasty Brain bleachers. There is no adventure here, just creepy coincidence you can lean on to make this PC super nervous."
47,"A PC eats a rotten bit of cheese and as a direct result is visited that night be three ghosts. Unlike other stories, they ghosts just want you to help them relive rowdy and drunken days of their misspent youth, while pretending to be giving you 'Moral Lessons'. 'yes yes *Ahem* DON'T spike the punch with *hick* Potion of Delusion and give some to that snotty little Suzanne Winterspoon. While SUPER deserved and funny as hell, it is a thing I encourage all of you to AVOID. *hick* For the sake of you're ahh... souls? yeah. Souls.' While perhaps amusing the real gift here is you now know some CRAZY random facts about people who are now important and highly placed in town."
48,Someone has been stealing manhole covers and then using Silent Image to make them LOOK like they are there and then mugging people who fall down into the sewer.
49,"The PC with the most languages notices that the laundry drying on twine in the alley spells a secret message asking for help, when looked at a particular way. Turns out an academic has been kidnapped and used as a laundress, but was previously a linguist and used her skill to try and find help."
50,A small group of children within sight steal a small pet.
51,"A market vendor forces a large lizard with a hood over its head into a PCs hands, and says, 'Finally, take this thing and deliver it to the tower. It might be dangerous so don't take off the hood.' Before he disappears from sight."
52,"A street vendor is selling painted rocks, trying to pass them off as magical items. (Dragon Scales, Basilisk Eyes, Stone-Giant Hearts/ Finger Nails, etc)."
53,The ball from a Ball-and-Stick game goes into the backyard of a house with a scary animal. It is vitally important to get the ball back (secretly if possible).
54,The Rat Catcher's wagon crashes into the Dog and Cat Catcher's wagon.
55,A caricature artist is overly insistent that you let them draw you.
56,A guy/gal is bawling after a particularly devastating breakup.
57,A young lad/lass Squire is frantically looking for something they lost on their way back to their Knight.
58,A company has organized a giant scavenger hunt throughout the city. Anyone can participate.
59,"A man barges in to the tavern the party is staying at, shouting and accusing the owner of stealing his secret recipe."
60,A messenger delivering post has crashed his cart after having one too many ales and his letters are scattered al over the road.
61,"A local bookshop is hosting a signing by a famous author, there are queues around the block!"
62,Bells in the town temple have started ringing in a totally different pattern from normal...
63,Travelling merchants are racing their pigs around the streets before they take them to market!
64,Someone has been secretly delivering parcels of coin to select houses in a neighborhood. No-one is sure what the recipient criteria is or who is sending the money but it is causing a lot of animosity between neighbors.
65,"The central square is hosting a public execution of a corrupt official, deaf to the pleas of his wife that he is innocent."
66,"Gwyneth, the Dwarvish single mother, is putting her laundry on a line."
67,Two twin lizardfolk children are craftily robbing a storefront.
68,The party watches as a shopkeeper shoos a giant rat away from his trash bin.
69,"A herd of cats have overrun the armory. The guard captain demands no harm come to them, but wishes them removed, concerned they might hurt themselves on the arms inside or an annoyed watchman."
70,"The local library adjoins the local alchemist, who is also head librarian. It has exploded again and the Alchemist/librarian is offering a fare wage to help restore or add to it. Knowledge and history checks to rewrite books, checks for rebuilding the building and shelves etc."
71,"The sewers have finally and violently backed up, after the mayor has refused to pay for them to be fixed, to the dismay of the laborer's offering a fair price."
72,"A trio of goblins on each others shoulders, poorly disguised as a dragonborn (with papier-mâché head and tail) are attempting sell a variety of pies for 1 silver each. The pies are quite good and the goblins intend no harm, they however believe they are getting a great deal and will refuse to disclose the contents of the pies, quoting it's a trade secret."
73,"The city is inhabited only by women, older people and children. All adult men are away in the war of kingdoms/counties/landowners and thus women are welcoming and in need of jobs of any kind (light to hard, dull to delicate/provocative) around the household, which they cannot perform."
74,"Someone is taking a bath in the public fountain... they're not taking coins, just bathing."
75,"A shop keep kicks a disgruntled young man out, saying 'I don't read cards! How many times do I have to tell you? Figure it out yourself!' If the party intends on going into that shop (probably an apothecary) he will ask if he can sneak in with everyone."
76,"A group of children laughing and playing, some engaged in a game of knucklebones, others cheering them on, still others singing. When the butcher comes rattling through, all of them sober up slowly but suddenly, and they switch to nursery rhymes, one of which is Sing a Song o' Sixpence."
77,A well-dressed young man spontaneously combusts in the middle of the road. No one else seems to notice.
78,"A small crowd gathers in the town square as a young man serenades a maiden with a band of troubadours. As he professes his love and proposes, the maiden takes a bard's lute and smacks him upside the head as she leaves."
79,"A cart wheel flies off and the embarrassed owner needs help getting it back on, as well as directions to the market."
80,A noble’s pet liger has climbed into a tree and appears to be stuck and in need of aid.
81,"Two local inventors are loudly arguing on a main thoroughfare, blocking your path. They are each accusing each other of being a fraud."
82,A group of bards posts a flyer for an upcoming theatrical production that is highly critical of the local political powers. You are able to grab one before you see local guards tearing down the flyers and burning them.
83,"A group of children sing an ancient prophecy, which has been slightly modified over the years. Ex. “When the stone bird has fled we’ll get fed (actually prophecy ends in we’ll all end up dead)”."
84,A person looking up from the sewer grates tells the players he'll exchange secrets.
85,Your PCs are approached by a hooded and cloaked figure that tries to recruit them to join the local cult. The PCs start to unravel a larger plot where the cult has taken over the local government.
86,A wizard approaches the party and says he's on the verge of a great breakthrough that will make him rich but he needs some reagents from the herbalist shop. Unfortunately they cut off his line of credit and he cant afford to buy it himself. He implores the party to buy the supplies for him.
87,"A wealthy debutante has decided to leave her wealth behind and begin adventuring, and throws one last soiree before giving away her wealth. The PCs are invited."
88,A small boy is caught trying to pickpocket the pc's. When he is caught her tearfully tells you that it's for the veteran that was hurt in the war.
89,"There is an incredibly long queue for what seems to be an ordinary building, no sign or anything. Upon asking the people in the line, they simply shrug their shoulders and then go back to waiting. Only way to find out is to queue up."
90,"While walking around the city, the party stumbles upon a small public speech being given by a candidate seeking a position on the city council. It is very clearly three goblins in a trench coat, but no one in the crowd seems to notice."
91,The local Arcane Academy Campus is in turmoil as students riot after their team lost The Big Game. The city has mobilized its guards and the Arcane Academy has raised a protective barrier.
92,"The Party passes by a funeral procession, but can clearly hear thumping from inside the closed casket and a muffled voice calling out."
93,Two Bards are in the middle of a poetic battle on the street and are unknowingly riling of a crowd and splitting them into factions ready to fight for their bard.
94,The Party is walking down the street when a seemingly normal man sneezes. The man immediately loses his concentration and polymorphs into a dragon in the middle of the street.
95,Town crier calling out that 'Bite-Hunting' is now illegal. Upon further inquiry they are informed that there has been a growing trend in the city of people seeking out to be infected with Lycanthropy.
96,"Baker calling out, claiming to have the 'most delicious bread in the realm', but is clearly selling rocks. Customers don't seem to care and are paying the high price for it."
97,"There is a game of (sport) going on in one of the cul-de-sacs as the Party passes by. The Party hears someone call out to them, they need extra players for each side."
98,The Party sees a manhole cover flying 20ft into the air and crash down on a stall on the street. People flee in a panic as an ordinary-looking rat emerges from the hole.
99,"The city is suddenly filled with a loud sound akin to tornado alarm. Sirens blare and bounce off the stone walls of the city, but the citizens seem to go about their business undisturbed."
100,A necromancer is attempting to offer undead labor and has gotten into a legal dispute regarding if zombies need time off or not.

d100,Entry

1,"Grandmother Sophis - An elegant angel with silvery hair and a twisted silver cane. She can with a touch of her cane take the years from someone, returning them to youth, childhood, or even infancy."
2,"Yason - A simple healer for a higher deity, often depicted in common clothes. Rumored to not be an angel at all, just a gifted and devoted healer for the people. He is depicted throughout history, his most noteworthy description being his angelic eyes."
3,Calvus - The bald healer. He heals those who are gravely ill and often leaves them bald as a result of being saved. He is depicted as a bald man often wearing a mask covering his nose and mouth.
4,"Matityahu - Defender of the innocent. Those that prey upon innocent children live in fear of Matityahu. As far as vengeful angels go, he is one of the more ""creative"" when it comes to his punishments."
5,"Amarylyth of the Golden Webs - Keeper of Celestial Spiders, she rides a giant white Tarantula. She cares for creeping things throughout the planes."
6,"Oswald, Keeper of the Celestial Inn - A plump, smiling Angel with a balding head and a scruff of beard. Oswald appears to good people caught outside at night and brings them to a comfortable shelter. In the morning, the shelter is gone, but their wounds are healed."
7,"Gideonhi the Great - Man, this angel is cool. No one knows exactly WHAT he does, but everyone knows he is awesome. Women want him, men and monsters want to be him. Devils are risen by his shadow falling across them. He, among other things, has invented sunglasses."
8,"Nephijah the Leveller - An angel with a powerful voice that commands the earth, shaping mountains and valleys according to his will."
9,Lysso - seeker in the darkness. His lamp literally lights the way to heaven.
10,"Tooriel the Blind- A tall, beautiful angel with an eyemask of pure gold. She speaks only in whispers, but spreads hope to all who hear her."
11,Loriel - an angel that take specific interest in helping collectors.
12,Danuevel the Innocent - An angel in the form of a very young girl with giant blue eyes. She comes to protect those who are about to lose belief in goodness.
13,Sanet the Rainmaker - Ender of droughts and other natural calamities. A soft rain follows wherever she goes.
14,"Thayban - This elderly but exuberant being watches over those who are old of age but will not pass on due to a sense of duty or unfinshed business. He sometimes appears to those he watches over in times of need to give encouragement or aid. His appearance is that of a decrepit and hunched old human with a long white beard and a few wisps of hair left on his spotted scalp but wearing shinning and new ornate armor that one might see on a rich, young, battle mage with a long sword in one hand and a mysterious sheet of cloth in the other."
15,Aulonauvimariousunetarom - A lonely and infrequently contacted angel who can be summoned by speaking his name--but only if pronounced perfectly the first time.
16,"Insidiis - The angel of secrets and spying. Hears all whispers, no matter how covert. Willing to sell the information for servitude and favors."
17,"Vinnas, Angel of Foresight - 5'4"" with short dark hair and a small round face, glasses, disgustingly well muscled, huge shoulders, no neck. Short man syndrome in full effect. Will talk seriously and purposefully about subject at hand, but will 100% fight you if you make cracks about his height. You don't even know, seriously bro, he'll mess you up, he's crazy."
18,"Gorry the Portraiter - A slim and quiet angel who visits artists and muses. Anyone who has been in his presence has truesight for a week; in addition, they see people as they are inside (their emotions and character)."
19,"The Kaon - An angelic judge who hunts for the souls of the damned on Earth, The Kaon appears as a shadowy, winged figure with piercing golden eyes. It remains silent while ‘on the hunt’ and speaks in a dull whisper when it must."
20,"Audelfais - Audelfais is an angel who wanders the earth providing a helping hand to those souls on the cusp of turning to darkness- It uses whatever form would work best to turn back the tide- a childhood friend, a wise mentor, a helpful stranger. In it’s natural form Audelfais is a glowing, amber-colored angel with an owl’s wings."
21,"Esephan - A proud angel-warrior with a long list of deeds, Esephan guards sacred sites from infernal or abyssal intrusions- Esephan relishes fighting devils and demons, but has never raised his blade against a mortal, and has made an oath to protect all mortals from harm. Esephan appears as a gold-armored humanoid with pale blue skin, with no wings."
22,Aziraphale - the Guardian of the Eastern Gate who failed at his task. Now he's a bookish nerd.
23,"Prevalet of the Harvest - Wherever she steps, wheat and corn stalks, grapevines, and blueberry brambles spring up. She wears a cloak the color of November and carries a cornucopia."
24,"Harold - A very awkward angel who's not exactly good at battle. He was cast down to the Material Plane when a prophecy was revealed that he will one day destroy the world. He is Harold of the End Times, and he has decided to fulfill his destiny."
25,"Haldrin - An angel with a strong bent on removing any type of demonic kind or demonic touched places. Tieflings are frequently targeted by him, as well as anyone who even speaks with demons and devils."
26,"Goriel - The Angel of Combat, who is always willing to challenge worthy opponents and try to encourage them to aid the cause of good by bringing out their fighting spirit; AKA ""He Who Finds Friends In Defeat""."
27,"Triel - An angel with three heads; the left one watches for evil, the right one listens for evil, and the center one warns people of evil. Can appear as triplets, or as a man with a hawk on one shoulder and a bat on the other."
28,"Fluteias - The Angel of Joyous Celebration, who uplifts the people spirits in the darkest of times."
29,Remias - The Angel of Cooking. Is often at odds with demons/devils that invoke gluttony in people.
30,Crandor - The Angel of Sarcasm. Really.
31,"Loquitor - Not a name, but a title; the Speaker For the Accused. An angel in this role appears dressed all in white robes, with a golden hood and mask. The Loquitor appears when courts in good-aligned cities, or angels themselves, seek wrongfully to punish an innocent either by accident or out of misplaced devotion. A Loquitor's appearance is not guaranteed, but such a manifestation is usually enough for immediate acquittal."
32,Kairm Alluveia - Angel of the Peaceful Sunrise. Appears as a humble shepherd and assists early morning travellers.
33,"Sassanah - Angel of Midwives. An older, kindly angel with a permanent stoop, except when someone threatens a child in her presence."
34,"Asfradon the Risen - A Redeemed Devil, Asfradon's otherwise blemishless countenance is scarred by a deep burn on one cheek. He seeks to bring redemptive light to lost souls."
35,Direaea of the Battle Hymn - A martial angel who strides into battle with a joyous song on her lips. She seeks glorious war.
36,"Kindlefret - Gnomish name for Angel of Warmth, who lights winter days."
37,"Eska, Angel of Lost Time - her kiss can un-petrify a subject but her true power is being able to transfer the curse to another person and sending people back in time. Her shield has a gorgon head emblazoned on it."
38,"Ryllith, Angel of Hell's Laughter - her full plate armor stained black and red. Trails of smoke and red lightning match her fury. If it's demonic she will not stop until she sends it back herself. Her wards and holy fire are the equivalent of an atom bomb down below and are feared for good reason. Sworn to silence, her sword does the talking for her."
39,"Kel, Angel of Bindings - she's a legendary healer, but she's also renowned for trapping some of Hell's finest warriors. She is the only known smith of angelic soulstones. Her voice has a hypnotic and soothing quality to it."
40,"Mordellico, the Taker: He visits battlefields, plague stricken cities, and areas of mass death. He searches for those who show great bravery in the face of their suffering and guides them to his realm. The reason why he takes these souls are as varied as those he chooses."
41,"Draisrael, The Ever-Watcher - The protector of the weak, the voice of the silent. Will be compelled to act when he sees an act of great injustice or undeserved suffering. Appears as extremely tall man with striking ice blue eyes."
42,"Cendareil, The Witness - A female angel who represents truth and justice. Courts in some lands are built in her name, however she will appear to help only those in the greatest need. Can only speak the truth, no matter how it will affect the situation."
43,"Aurelia - an angel with bright red hair, slender musculous body clad in gilded armor, using a silver encrusted two handed freatsword she is a deity from another plane where the whole world is a big city, where she is the war leader of one of the factions there."
44,"Alita - an angel from another plane of existence. Her body was destroyed by evil so her ""father"" has made a mechanical one for her. Shes a cyborg now and out for vengeance."
45,"Hephalia - an angel so beautiful and lovely, most mistaken her for a goddess at first. She is the bringer of love and fertility, with a harp of pure gold and a voice where even the hearts of demons can be melted."
46,"Ellandria - an angel with red tipped feathers on her wings, carrying a white staff made from the Horn of a high ranking demon, she is called upon when higher demons wreck havoc on planes of the mortals."
47,"Rashgana - The great armorer of Heaven. An expert enchanter and forge master, his art is unmatched. Some armor is known even to heal itself and it's owner over time. His great hammer never ceases."
48,"Xadriana - A beautiful muse, she inspires all creation in her own subtle way. However, she is very shy and slow to anger. Her bare knuckles can crack a mountain."
49,"Jorada: Angel of the Storms - always helping mortals in the ocean, he can usually be found leading ships through a hurricane or nursing an injured kraken. Capricious as the sea herself he fights with nets and twin tridents."
50,"Trumdilium, Angel of Humor and Humility - Self deprecating, funny and sweet. Often hums to himself."
51,Delephian the Rainbow Walker - A great Angel of Creation who makes colors more vibrant by being near them. She is the muse of many great artists.
52,Gatomen - Angel of Marriage and Joyous Intimacy - Believes that all can be brought to realize there is more joy in good than evil. Hates brothels and must be constrained from attacking them on sight.
53,Acedius: Angel of Stoicism - Appears to those in need of a reason to set aside their emotions and focus on the task at hand.
54,"Deici: Angel of Indecision - Appears to those who are brash in their decision-making, in order to show them it is virtuous to think things through."
55,Xalus: Angel of Silence and Serenity - Appears to those who need to keep it down.
56,"Rakdeus, Tabaxi angel of cats, large and small. He is on a mission to teach all the joys of simple pleasures, such as lying in the sun."
57,"Latia the Washer - She visits the clearest of waters cleaning the undesirables of the world. Her cleaning ends addictions, can heal the mentally afflicted, and loft curses. She never speaks and never turns anyone away."
58,"Supratmi, Angel of Blades - Metal-winged Lady of Knives and Swords."
59,"Hustifan, Caller of Warning - Angel with a clarion, who comes to spread the alarm when enemies threaten."
60,"Satchmigal, Declarer of Kings - Angel with a herald trumpet, who comes to mark auspicious events and divine signs."
61,"Bonidor, Sounder of the Rally - Angel with large war horn, who comes to change the tide of battle and restore hope. If Hustifan, Satchmigal and Bonidor appear together, their horns in unison can flatten cities, level mountains, and put whole armies to flight."
62,"Behevel, Lady of Regret - Angel who helps those who seek to right long-remembered sins."
63,Swon Tealtearer - Angel who seeks constantly to prevent the rise of Blue Dragon-Green Dragon offspring.
64,"Nichtenghall - Angel of lost paths. Appears in areas where will o' the wisps gather, puts them to flight, and guides lost travellers to safe ground."
65,"Hyanos, The Dreamer - This Angel aids those who suffer from Night Terrors/Nightmares and grants them a peaceful rest."
66,"Errah, Angel of the Dawn - An Angel who heralds the rising sun, often associated with roosters."
67,"Maletayah, Angel of Stings - An Angel who protects and heals those afflicted with poison."
68,"Aratia, The Nurturing - An angel who tends to orphaned children. She is fiercely protective of them."
69,"Ragask, The Sealed - An Angel who had been sealed inside a stained glass window for centuries due to a curse from a demon. It is said that he'd eventually find a way to free himself."
70,"Xibala, The Playful - An Angel of activeness and fun. Free spirited and Boisterous, she often spends time disguised as a human child to play with others."
71,"Charmiel, The Elusive - An Angel who can create powerful illusions to confuse and mislead those he deems as wicked."
72,Shepard Sigmus - Bathed in light he is a beacon for lost children. Guiding them to safety with his soft hymn.
73,"Usterets, the Exemplar - Angel who assists those who stay with their parties to keep them from evil."
74,"Fokksoughl - The angel of deathbed repentance, he who gives the last clear chance."
75,"Limennora - The guardian of children and protector of innocence. From the night beast to the drunken father, she defends children from all threats they shouldn't have to face."
76,"Gabriella - An ascended paladin who eternally watches over the prison of her once-mortal companion, a storm sorcerer who was consumed from within and became a terrible primordial of destruction."
77,"L'Araine - Angel of self-attainment and ambition. She aids those who seek to help themselves, encouraging them to choose a path that does not hurt others. Appears as a tall woman with a lion's-head shield."
78,"Gunther the Hindsight - Angel of reminiscence and repentance. His domain is that of the mind, as he is able to replay a person's memories for them with full detail and accuracy. Appears as an old, wizened man with this head turned backwards on his neck."
79,"Ethel the Kind - Angel of lost loved ones, both animate and inanimate. She aids those that call her by finding things that have been lost in the past 72 hours, whether it's a child, a household pet, or a family heirloom. She appears as a thin old woman with comically large spectacles and partridge wings."
80,"Allestia - Angel of Fertility, Pregnancy and Motherhood. Will sometimes appear during a difficult delivery to offer aid and ease the pain. Many midwives wear her sigil and ask for her guidance."
81,"Rukgeuse, Angel of Brutal Smiting - A raging angelic barbarian with four arms and two great axes the size of angel's wings. Usually a battlefield fighter who helps warriors, Rukgeuse has been assigned the secondary duty of watching over those in customer-facing service industries. Rukgeuse provides inspiration when the customer is wrong and deserves it."
82,"Alomom the Herald - A monstrous-looking celestial whose glory is nearly impossible to behold without going blind, whose many mouths constantly sings praises to its overlord, whose many eyes never turn down towards the wriggling, rotten earth. It delivers messages from on high. Doesn't like leaving the celestial presence, so don't expect it to stick around and explain anything."
83,"Iklila - Appears as a spinning clawed box surrounded by three glorious halos. Its glory silences all in its presence, but it can hold many psionic conversations simultaneously. It's voice is like a cello. Leaves crumbles of myrrh in its wake. (Optional: The good aligned can make a charisma force-of-inner-strength throw to attempt to approach Iklila. Giving Iklila thirty pieces of silver causes Iklila to vend a useful item. Other coins or non-exact change cause it to vend various bizarre celestial-themed drinks, foods, and candies.)"
84,"Hekaphina, Missioner to the Undead - Appears as a figure on a throne nested within a 30-foot ball of interlinked featureless humanoid bodies who hold opalescent palm fronds that resemble wings. The figure on the throne never speaks, instead each of the humanoid bodies takes a turn in a different voice. Hekaphina oversees the penance of those who were good but committed atrocities while undead. Invoked by sane undead who defied their fate and hope to keep their reason and goodness."
85,"Zubnasl, Shepherd of Mankind - A ring of three maidens facing inward who are conjoined at the feet and hold hands or each other's arms. The angel constantly twirls as though it is playing ring-around-the-Rosie. One maiden has a basket of fresh eggs on her wrist, one supports a young goat in the crook of her arm, and final maiden carries a pail of water. (Optional: Those who dally or stray from divine missions may be greeted by Zubnasl's encouragement and a gentle push. When push comes to shove, the pail's water becomes impassible obstacles, the eggs a swarm of harrying monsters, and the goat a raging 16 horse carriage that moves at impossible speeds over any terrain no matter how ridiculous.)"
86,Asedrasa the Fate Averted - Appears as a hovering grand shield wearing a flowing hooded cape. Makes a prompt appearance when the worthy pray for salvation from a surely deadly attack.
87,"Malfuhaut - A wheel of orcas with lion heads mounted on a great chrome wheel. It can assemble into a celestial chariot when with like kind. Its multiple heartbeats sound an energetic baseline to accompany its speech. Denounces false prophets and lists their sins. Has a sense of humor, but suppresses it when on the job."
88,Amaryllis - The Angel of Persistence. Silently comes to those who wish to learn tasks through repetition and helps them continue on.
89,"Venatorius- The Black Pursuer, a metal armored angel of celestial steel and black trim on the edges. Has huge black crow wings and wields a huge black glaive called The Hastam Venari. Never speaks, only communicates telepathically"
90,"Luali - A short, frail angel with butterfly wings. Works better as a secretary of sorts, prefers not to fight."
91,Huyka - A massive collection of snow white dove wings springing out from some unknown center. Makes no noise at all.
92,"Juiel, The Saved - A kindhearted street urchin in his past life, Juiel ascended to angelhood after giving his life for a god disguised as a mortal man. Juiel is skinny and lanky, cloaked in a cloud of dust. His wings are that of a buzzard. He is known to bring rest and nourishment to those who need it most."
93,"Hali - An angel that seems to be made of glass. Rarely moves, instead standing as a statue. Whenever she spreads her holy influence, the receiver will notice a small, transparent figure in the distance. She shines beams and wards of light, protecting the worthy and smiting the wicked."
94,"Leomund, Patron of The Arts - An elderly man who appears mostly normal, save for hands being constantly caked in paint and wings resembling pages of music notes. He helps those in artist's block with inspiration and relaxation, letting them finish their masterpiece."
95,"Basiline, The Impossible - Appears as a snake constantly eating its own tail. They only stop when an paradox is acted out in reality, consuming the perpetrator and their work. Preserves the fundamental order of the universe itself, usually going unnoticed until they stop working. Then things break."
96,"I (pronounced Ei) - Quite simply, a giant ball of light. They have no true name, no location, and no bias. Anyone who is able to contact them will be told one truth. It could be huge, like the fate of the Gods themselves, or something mundane, like what grandma had for dinner last night. Regardless, the truth is always something new to the questioner."
97,Torcian - Appears as a giant steam train in the sky. Works for the good of mechanists and technological progress. To hear Torcian's whistle is to be said be an omen of good fortune to creators of all kinds.
98,"Lucien - Was a demon who was banished from every realm of Hell. Appears as a snow white devil with a bird's wings, claws, and head. Works as a messenger between planes, delivering messages and souls alike to where they belong. Never speaks, instead cocking its head and cooing, like a bird would."
99,"Okeanos, Angel of the Deep - A vaguely humanoid mass of corals and tangled seaweed. A zealous lawman, he punishes those who sin at sea by dragging them to the bottom of the ocean to drown."
100,"Ejubila the Gentle Slumber - Their weight cannot be felt and they cannot be seen by normal means. They rest upon the chest of those they keep safe, protecting them from anything that would interfere with their sleep."

d100,Entry

1,"An unfavorable wind blowing the ship towards shore. Sailing into the wind means tacking, which is hard and exhausting work for the crew and navigator."
2,"A Blue sea dragon demands tribute, Gold, Valuables, or Blood"
3,A Crate with a cures Crown made of blue scales and golden thorns
4,A Floating bottle with a Treasure map inside! (DC 18 to spot)
5,A Floating Treasure chest filled with GOLD! PAYDAY! (Dex DC 17 to catch) (STR DC 15 to lift it out)
6,A large sea creature surfaces nearby
7,"A Legendary Party boat floats by, almost like a floating city and they try to get the party to join!"
8,"A marshy isthmus blocks the way ahead, the crew may have to get out and pull the ship across"
9,"A mass of bubbles and cavitation beneath the ship cause it sink suddenly, before the bubbles cease and the now swamped vessel and crew must struggle to the surface."
10,A Merchant ship who is willing to trade goods!
11,"A pre-existing naval battle between two opposing fleets. Dare they try to navigate around them, or will they push forwards and into the crossfire?"
12,"A tear in the Material Plane leading to the Elemental Plane of Water, causing more and more water to violently pour into the sea along with whatever creatures may follow... These could be the roughest waves seen to date!"
13,"Ahead of the ship you can see a massive storm event. The distance to it and its size are indiscernible, but it looks like a hurricane, and the sudden choppy wake only confirms it."
14,"An Aquamarine Sea Dragon appears, and, with cooperation, blesses the crew"
15,"An unexpected desert island (Very small) In the distance, with an NPC trying to flag the ship (DC 18 perception)"
16,"Beautiful sunset, no clouds, decent winds but not very fast"
17,"Castaways on a lifeboat needing help,"
18,Choppy grey waters that elude to a storm despite a mostly clear sky
19,Choppy seas on a sunny day. Tritons and Kuo-ta wage battle just beneath the surface.
20,Clear skies wind against
21,Clear sunny skies no wind
22,Cloudy and Rainy with capsizable waves
23,Cloudy and Rainy with Favorable winds
24,Cloudy and the wind is running away with the ship
25,"Cloudy with choppy seas, struggle to maintain direction"
26,"Cold air, travel waters become half ocean half ice sludge; impedes travel to a slow pace"
27,Crimson floods the sky and the moon seems closer than usual. The water seems to be behaving... for now.
28,"Dark night, not a star in the sky - making night time navigation difficult"
29,"Dark, cloudy sky and cold air. Dark shadows swim beneath what at first glance appears to be an empty ocean"
30,"Doldrums - scorching heat, clear sky, no wind whatsoever. Better have packed fresh water."
31,Foggy and no wind to guide direction
32,Frenzy of flying fish feeding in fog upon which the frequency and size of the fish increases over time eventually overwhelming even the largest ships as the fattest whale sized flying fish slap down onto the decks
33,glowing woman appears in front of the ship. (Ghost Encounter)
34,"Green waters that move unnaturally, it's unclear if it really is water or not"
35,Heavy winds creating a waterspout
36,In the middle of the deep the water becomes still; Lilly pads grow on the surface and the water is rich with vegetation and life.. the water is sweet and pleasant to drink
37,"Incredibly cold and slightly snowy, poor visibility"
38,"It is overcast but otherwise calm, but the air is filled with static and occasionally lightning strikes in the distance."
39,"Jagged rocky spires suddenly jutting out of the ocean, corpses of boats litter them - requires expert and slow movement"
40,Clear skies and favorable wind.
41,Lightning strikes the water up ahead.
42,Mega waves sweeping across the deck of the boat
43,"Patches of the sea start bubbling, causing boats to sink"
44,"Progressively larger icebergs float by, nearly hitting your ship, Mementos from each characters past bob up to the surface, yet when reached for, they reveal themselves as mirages. DC 12 DEX check to avoid falling in."
45,"Sargasaum. No wind or current, seaweed and garbage everywhere"
46,Scorching hot and stale winds
47,"Scratching sounds coming from outside the hull, heard below decks"
48,Shallow reefs or rocks make travel dangerous.
49,Stormy the winds rip the sails
50,"Stormy, un-tamable winds"
51,Suddenly a meteor strikes the ocean not even 200 ft. ahead of the ship. The massive energy from the impact suddenly creates a massive tidal wave like effect and heats the water so it burns to the touch.
52,Sunny with light winds moving into sandbars
53,"Sunny, but with a light rain and a cold breeze"
54,"The air is thick and humid, so much so that you can see the misty vapors as the light wind moves it."
55,The boat sails past jetsam from a carnival boat
56,The boat sails past thousands of dead fish
57,The boatswain spies a spectral ship off the port bow!
58,"The party is visited by a god of chaos, and is willing to play a game, for a fee"
59,"The sea and air taste sweet, not salty"
60,"The sea is unusually calm, flat as far as the eye can see, makes a perfect reflection of the sky"
61,"The seas are brimming with fish and life, dolphins accompany the boat as it glides though the water"
62,The water Begins to smell of rotten eggs (Con save)
63,"The water exudes a greenish mist, but is otherwise calm as one would expect from good weather at sea."
64,"The water is abnormally glassy, like an untouched lake."
65,The water is abnormally salty and the ship seems unstably buoyant.
66,The water seems normal. Fish are jumping out of the water in delight of the clear skies.
67,"The water seems to be accelerating towards port side. With careful inspection through a spyglass, you can see a large whirlpool in the distance."
68,The water seems to be... boiling?
69,The water suddenly goes silent and stops moving as the boat slides through the wake
70,"There are a suspicious amount of fish in these waters, almost as if they’re fleeing something"
71,There is a mirage of boats floating upside down beneath the water
72,They are visited by a god one of the party members worship and is blessed.
73,"Unfavorable winds or currents requiring 'kedging' (using rowboats, ropes, pulleys, poles, and anchors to move the ship manually)."
74,"You find a Derelict ship that's better than theirs, with no crew on board."
75,You hear arrhythmic soft thumps against the hull of the ship. Looking overboard is a sea of floating lifeless bodies.
76,“What’s that singing I hear off in the distance?”
77,"A twenty-meter tall wave crashes into the hull of the ship, dealing 2d10 bludgeoning damage to the ship and players. (Players can make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw to half the damage to themselves)."
78,The water in a 100-meter radius of the boat turns into magic ice which can be broken with either a DC 22 Strength check or the use of a damaging 1st-level spell or higher.
79,"Gale-force winds push you to your location at four times the traveling speed of your vessel for one hour. Each hour, any player on the top of the deck has to make a DC 10 Dexterity saving throw in order to no be thrown off the ship."
80,An airship (see Unearthed Arcana: Of Ships and the Sea for star block) flies overhead and shoots a ballista (3d10 piercing damage) at your vessel.
81,Strange magnetic ore in the coral reefs causes the compass to spin in circles.
82,Several large ships seem to be chasing a smaller ship.
83,"Water in the area starts freezing, creating chunks of ice."
84,You spot a ship circling a giant whirlpool. The ship cant quite seem to get enough speed to break free from the whirlpools grip.
85,A forest of giant kelp starts brushing against the bottom of the ship.
86,Discover a strong ocean current. Bonus points to speed if traveling in the same direction.
87,"Some titanic sized creature surfaces underneath the ship, lifting the ship out of the water. The creature is large enough to not have even noticed the ship or it's crew."
88,A sea monster leaps from the water and lands on the deck. It keeps pacing along the deck and stares over the rails while shivering.
89,Hundreds of sea birds start landing on the deck.
90,"You spy a derelict ship. Upon closer inspection, it looks like the entire crew was massacred by something."
91,"You spy a large tower in the middle of the sea. As you get closer, you see several docks around it with several ships already docked. The tower is the entrance to an underwater city."
92,You see a group of Sauhaugin riding towards you atop a pack of sharks. You're under attack!
93,You here a mysterious scratching from below deck. Further investigation reveals that it's coming from underneath the ship.
94,It is raining cats and dogs. All the meowing and barking is going to get annoying very quickly. The cats and dogs that land on deck seem ready to go to war.
95,"A water elemental emerges from the sea, attacking you and screaming about pollution."
96,"A group of sea elves swims up beside your ship, inviting you to visit an underwater city."
97,A school of killer whales use their collective strength to push your ship off course. It seems like they want you to follow them.
98,You are sailing into a lot of large rocks and many wrecked ships. This is a ship graveyard.
99,A mesmerizing song on the wind beckons to you. Sailors must save or jump overboard and swim toward what each of them imagines is the source.
100,Perfect weather. All clear.

d100,Entry

1,"101 Ways to Cook an Ooze' - Interesting recipes include gelatinous cube cocktail, ochre apple jelly, and salted pudding"
2,"Physiologies of Magical Creatures' - Information on the biology of Beholders, Dragons, Unicorns, and more. Full of diagrams."
3,"The Prophecies' - Tales of great adventures. Partway through, all the pages become blank"
4,"How to Spot a Mimic' - Tips such as listen for breathing, and see if it responds to being touched"
5,Bordrick’s Fantastic Adventure' - Dwarven choose your own adventure book
6,Planeshifting' - Details different ways to travel between different planes of existence
7,On Monstrous Races' - Discusses whether monstrous races should or should not be allowed into society
8,The Outside' - A self-written account by someone you know who saw a vision of them self as a small plastic figurine on a table surrounded by a number of god-like beings after they talked to a group of adventurers
9,"Human?' - Story about an ogre who, despite his incompetence, convinced everyone that he was actually a very tall human, became a king, then was discovered and beheaded."
10,Landmarks to Visit Before You Die' - Details a number of landmarks and monuments in a country or city you have never heard of
11,"The Hitchhiker’s Guide to the Kingdom' - A book with not entirely inaccurate advice on 'how to see the kingdom on less than 30 copper pieces a day'. The very first page contains only the words 'Don’t Panic' printed in large, friendly letters."
12,"Incredible Creatures and How to Kill Them' - Details weaknesses monsters are known to have. It is part of a five-volume set; the first volume is for beginners (level 1-4), the second for the somewhat experienced (level 5-8) and so on."
13,Magic for Dummies' - Explains what magic is and how it works in the style of '___ for Dummies' books. Does not teach one how to cast spells.
14,"Wish It, Want It, Screw It' - detailed accounts of times the Wish spell backfired horribly."
15,"So Long, and Thanks for All the Ale' - The story of Tarvish the dwarf, who had unpaid bar tabs worth a total of 10,000 gold all across the country before being arrested"
16,Flumphs; the Pleasant Surprises of the Underdark' - A journal accounting some time that a researcher spent living with a cloister of flumphs. The author documented at least once every day for a month
17,"Taming the Beast' - A perfect book for beginner beastmasters. Gives tips and tricks on how to win over wild creatures of all kinds. It starts with tiny creatures like frogs and crabs, followed by small creatures like eagles and fire beetles, medium creatures like giant badgers and giant frogs, large creatures like owlbears and bullettes, and finishes with huge creatures like elephants and some dinosaurs."
18,"A Day in the Life of a Lemure' - A beginner demon/devil researcher decided to start his studies on the weakest of all fiend kind, the lemure. After summoning a lemure in a remote location, he watched its behavior for a day. After gathering the information needed, the author had the hideous abomination placed within a special containment vessel, alongside the many empty ones that would house the many other fiends. At the end of the book lies a map to the research facility. If the party decides to go there, they will find out that the author finished doing research on an imp, manes, and dretch as well."
19,The Spider King' - A fictional tale of an adventurer delving into the underdark to slay a fearsome giant spider.
20,The Bjernson Family Tree And Exploits' - The family tree of a Nordic clan with all the males named Bjern Bjernson. This book helps tell them apart.
21,Rosaline And Mercutio' - A romantic tragedy by Bill Shaking-lance.
22,Pictures of Cats' - A picture book full of photos of cats dressed in cute outfits and doing cute things. It's about the size of an average dictionary.
23,"I Can't Believe It's Not Harmless!' - A hefty guide of herbs, mushrooms and berries that surround the city where the book was found. It contains accurate annotations of the ailments due to consumption or touch, with descriptive drawings of people having diarrhea or throwing up."
24,"Hit The Apple, Not My Face!' - A Detailed Guide to Archery' This book even includes instructions for constructing a simple bow and targets."
25,Baby Dragon Destroys the Village' - A truly heartwarming children's book.
26,"AAARRGGHH!: A Barbarian's Guide to Clobbering Your Enemies' - The writing is messy and misspelled, and some of the letters are are backwards. What's more, the cover is splattered with blood on the bottom right corner, like someone was violently clobbered by the book."
27,"The Three Little Goblins' - Three goblins set off to build houses of wood, straw, and enchanted brick and start new lives, but the Big Bad Dire Wolf complicates things."
28,"Claiming the Crown' - An Experienced Guide to Assassinating Royals' - How to brew a poison, how to create a disguise, tips on wielding daggers, and more!"
29,The Banshees I Have Loved' - A tragedy of five acts.
30,Phylomagenetics and the Herbalist' - A primer for the professional and newcomer alike.
31,Population Dynamics of Cryptosaurs' - A treatise on the ever-evolving age structures of dragons by region and plane.
32,"Memoirs of a Goblin' - A dramatic, often erotic, first-person biography of a female goblin groomed to be a concubine in an exotic land. The author is a male elf."
33,"How to Win Friends and Enchant People' - Despite the title, has nothing to do with magic, but it does have some good advice about how to make yourself seem more approachable."
34,"The Dragon with a Girl Tattoo' - A psychological mystery thriller about a detective who befriends a shapeshifted silver dragon with a dark past, to find a murderer before he strikes again."
35,"To Kill a Manticore' - There isn't a single manticore in the entire book, it's about a half-orc on trial for a crime he didn't commit and the halfling lawyer who represents him."
36,The 7 Habits of Highly Effective Adventurers' - A self-help book with an optimistic view of the steps a person must take to succeed as an independent contractor with a sword.
37,"Eat, Summon, Love' - A married woman realizes how unhappy her marriage really is, and that her life needs to go in a different direction. After a painful divorce, she joins a cult of necromancers to 'find herself'. Based on a true story."
38,"Bahamut Shrugged' - An action-thriller written by one of the world's most controversial philosophers, the novel is set in a dystopia where magic is tightly regulated and only Gon Jalt can liberate magic-users from the non-magical 'parasites', i.e. everyone else."
39,"Cockatrice Soup for the Soul ' - This book is so commonplace, it's a cliché that in every house where a woman of a certain age lives, there will be at least one heavily-read copy of this book with it's sappy stories and cloyingly sweet words of wisdom. It is beyond worthless."
40,"The Origin of Magical Species' - Full title: On the Origin of Magical Species by Means of Supernatural Selection, or the Preservation of Favored Races in the Struggle for Life, is considered to be the foundation of understanding of how magic has shaped the evolution of the natural world. Although the theories presented inside are accepted as fact by nearly all universities and centers of learning, some religions regard it as heretical and have asked to have it banned."
41,The Geographica Gelatinousa' - 101 Oozes and How to Avoid Them
42,My Life as a Human Being' - A Dragon's Observation on Humanoid Culture
43,"Harold Haversham's Holisitic Handbook of Healing' - At first it appears to be a beginners guide to crafting potions, however as the book progresses the author becomes more and more adamant that all ailments are purely mental. There is a detailed account in which the author was treating a man for a broken arm and healed it through weekly mental therapy sessions."
44,Wager like a Winner' - A Goblins Guide to Gambling by Grey ‘Greedy’ Gradnok
45,The Wizard of Odds' - Betting for Profit by B.M. Sawbuck
46,"So You Want to be a .....series' - Illustrated beginner guides to becoming a Wizard, Druid, Ranger etc. for children."
47,The Potion Diaries' - One Girl’s Intoxicating Adventures by Madame S. Ruth
48,Lost in Translation' - The Art of the Scribe by Thoth Gardiner
49,Fitting a Square Peg Through a Round Hole: The curious mobility of oozes'
50,"Half Human, Half Horse, All Man' - A defense of carnal relationships with beast races"
51,Halfling Histories' - An incomplete telling of the tales of the half-folk
52,The Orc's Cookbook: 101 ways to prepare an elf' - To make the hunt taste delicious
53,"Every. Accomplished. Recognizable. Sentient. by Tommeltop the Gnome' - An encyclopedia of anyone who accomplished anything of moderate note ever, however most of each page is dedicated to greatly exaggerated, suitably cringy and oddly romantic paragraphs about how great each person's ears must have been. Any brave soul who actually reads the book through is suddenly able to recall in perfect detail the ears of anyone they've ever seen before, for no apparent reason. (Perhaps there are drawings and details of the pc's and their ears as well)"
54,The Cantrip-bury Tales'
55,"The Lord of the Rings' A historical fiction-esque set of books about an adventuring party ages ago in a material plane far, far away."
56,"Names to Run Away From' - A collection of monsters, plant, fungus, magical phenomenon and other miscellaneous 'things' that even the most accomplished - or desperate- of adventurers avoid - for they are easy to kill, but they are also a mighty pain in the behind and, even more importantly, in your wallet."
57,The Legend of Atlas' - A collection of the all the known myths and legends in the world from the beginning of the written to the present.
58,Merfolk Companions' - This book details how Merfolk capture and train seals as pets.
59,Forever and Always' - The future predictions of a historian who lived two centuries ago. His predictions continue on for another four hundred years.
60,Prince of Reality' - A philosophical book that tries to explain the true nature of reality.
61,The Common Woman's Guide to Royalty' - A guide on how every lady should act in society.
62,The Witch's Guide to Home brew Potions' - A series of tips on how to be the most successful witch you can be
63,Becoming a Paladin: A full guide to becoming the lawful good person you always hoped to be!' - This thick volume even includes how to protect orphanages and the correct means of smiting your enemies.
64,Being Familiar With Your Familiar: The book for casters who wish to bond with their animal companions' - A field guide to all common and some uncommonly seen familiars in the area.
65,"New Technology: Summer Special Edition' - This information source gives details on many new forms of technology, such as reinforced crossbows, iron hunting traps, and many, many magic items."
66,The Tao of Earth' - Starts with philosophical musings about the importance of creation and stability over destruction and change. This book is written in an old dialect that most people (even magic users) have trouble reading. It occasionally goes on long-winded philosophical tangents.
67,"The Tao of Water' - Starts with a note: lava and water is basically the same thing! don't try to use fire spells on it. If you fail to understand this basic, the Tao will forever escape you. This book is written in an old dialect that most people (even magic users) have trouble reading. It occasionally goes on long-winded philosophical tangents."
68,The Tao of Air' - Starts with philosophical musings on how a fickle thing like air is needed for (long-lived) living creatures to breathe. There is a 5% chance of an ancient erotic letter being found loose inside. This book is written in an old dialect that most people (even magic users) have trouble reading. It occasionally goes on long-winded philosophical tangents.
69,"The Tao of Fire' - Starts with a strict warning to master at least one of the other 3 elemental books first, because while many people think playing with fire is fun, it's not worth dying over. This book is written in an old dialect that most people (even magic users) have trouble reading. It occasionally goes on long-winded philosophical tangents."
70,"The Tao of Life' - This volume is the thickest, but somehow the least complete; it contains many anatomical diagrams, as well as several normative references to The Tao of Death. This book is written in an old dialect that most people (even magic users) have trouble reading. It occasionally goes on long-winded philosophical tangents."
71,"The Tao of Death' - This volume is missing from most sets after a book-burning campaign, but its existence is well known. This book is written in an old dialect that most people (even magic users) have trouble reading. It occasionally goes on long-winded philosophical tangents."
72,"The Tao of Secrets' - The existence of this volume is not widely known, and its veracity is debated among scholars; all claimed copies of this volume appear to consist entirely of blank pages, which nobody has ever manage to cast a spell to extract the information out of - thus suspicions that they're fake. But they do appear to be just as old as the other volumes ..."
73,Lolthlita
74,Fifty Shades of Drow' - Part history and part fan fiction starring Lolth.
75,The Summoning of Dragons' - A Celestial's guide to the methods and dangers of calling on the great reptiles.
76,"untitled book - this book contains no text, and has a small hole cut into the pages which contains something of value (coins, a key, etc.)"
77,"Keeper of the Keys' - Whenever a creature reads this book, they slowly fall asleep then 'awaken' inside the book (their body remains in the real world). Living inside of the book is a half-man, half-dog extraplanar being who owns a copy of every key in existence, and whose only entertainment is reading books, but several of the books available for him to read are unfinished close to their ending. The party can enter the incomplete books to finish their stories (incomplete books could be a story of a great battle, a story where an assassin must be chased down, or something similar), and should they finish all of the stories given to them to complete, the Keeper of the Keys shall give them a key. Should they die inside of a book, a person will simply be ejected from it, rather than die outright."
78,Gnome means Gnome' - A beginner's guide to understanding the differences between the shorter races of the realm.
79,"Sparing?' - An orc bandit slowly goes from blood raging pillager to being a member of society. A heartwarming tale of death, destruction, and love."
80,Deck of Limiting Things' - A collection of possibly true tales about people who used the deck of many things and the chaos that followed.
81,The Art of Procrastination and How to Perfect it' - A book filled with scribbles. It is only halfway finished
82,"Forging for Dummies' - A book on how to forge weapons and tools, written by a dwarf as a gift to his human pupil."
83,Diamonds in the rough'- A book on soul gems and their proper creation.
84,The very hungry Chimera'- A children's book detailing the complicated diet of a magical monster. It ends with the chimaera eating an adventuring party and falling asleep.
85,"Guinness' Book of world records'- A book crafted over a lifetime by an adventurer named Guinness. It contains accomplishments such as 'Worlds largest dragon' 'Longest time spent in a beholders lair', 'Fattest goblinoid' And 'Most monstrosities slain in a day"
86,"How to capture your princess' - A collection of dating tips, advices and tricks, written by, for, and to men. Use it at your own risk!"
87,"Backstage' - Detailing the more mundane dangers of the adventuring life, like insufficient supplies, inappropriate gear, public reactions, illnesses and the common lack of money - with tips and advices how to prevent them (the second edition have humorous footnotes from the author)."
88,"You and Evil' - A promotional(?) book from the Nine Hells. Details most of the pros and cons to working for the infernal realm, with useful notes on the 'gray zones'. May cause surveillance by the temples of good."
89,"Personal Care for Adventurers' - Tells adventurers how to maintain a clean, healthy look after weeks in the wilderness."
90,Berries and You' - Informs the reader on edible and inedible berries found in the wild.
91,Castle Architecture' - A book about how castles and the like are constructed.
92,Bardic Legends From Far Away Lands' - A book about legends often sung or performed by bards.
93,"How To Waste Good Paper' - The pages inside this book are beautifully designed with colorful trim and a flowery layout. Other than the title, however, this book has no content in its pages. (Detect Magic: It is a spellbook written with magical invisible ink (or runes, etchings, message, mark, whatever) detailing only one spell to learn: Detect Magic)"
94,Everyday Lives' - A compilation of the contents of journals which were obtained from ordinary people.
95,Avatar: The Last Airbender' - A 3 volume set of books in which a young elemental monk learns to harness his his power so that he may bring peace to a hundreds years war.
96,"Tic-Tic-Twang' - A detailed guide for creating clockworks, golems, animated items, and traps, rather easily. Restricted in most kingdoms, as its too valuable to outright ban and destroy its knowledge, despite the widespread collateral damage after its first releases. The bounty for the authors is still valid."
97,Magic in the House' - The legacy of an archmage suffering from an obsession about cleanliness. Explains how to use the different schools of magic to help with the chores around your home. Apprentices around the world curse whoever thought its good for their training that they need to do those chores manually.
98,Gary's Guide to Gathering Gold' - A story about how some guy named Gary wrote a role-playing game called 'Fiends and Fortresses' and made millions of gold selling thousands of copies.
99,"Fiends and Fortresses - Player's Handbook' - A book on how the play the popular role-playing game 'Fiends and Fortresses', where players roll dice to fight fantastical creatures and adventure through fortresses while someone designated a 'Fortress Master' tells a story."
100,Fiends and Fortresses - Fortress Master's Guide' - A book on how to lead players through a story and gameplay in the popular role-playing game 'Fiends and Fortresses'

d100,Entry

1,La Desollador
2,Tide Gorger
3,The Dragon Turtle
4,The Maidens Call
5,Reef Sprinter
6,Wrath of Umberlee
7,Northstar
8,The Prid Of The North (the bloke painting the name on the boat forgot a letter)
9,The Wavebreaker
10,The Morning Moon
11,The Mourning Moon
12,The Midnight Sun
13,The Ship With No Name (Don’t point out that surely that is it’s name because the captain will get tetchy)
14,The Copperhead
15,The last Plank
16,The Seaward
17,Centennial
18,Old Salty
19,Illithids Thrall
20,Helm's Harrier
21,Swift Sorcerer
22,Gibbous Crescent
23,Nightfall's Rest
24,The Darkmantle
25,The Whippersnapper
26,The Parched Parrot
27,The Grand Mast
28,The Red Thief
29,The Tall Maiden
30,The Wicked Temptress
31,Dock-Breaker
32,Accipiter
33,The Sea Maid
34,Spring's Kiss
35,Storm's Wrath
36,Uppertide
37,Poseidon's Witness
38,The Black Horizon
39,The Iron Tide
40,The Ingot
41,Jergal's Debtor
42,The Crusader
43,The Lich's Sorrow
44,The Death Cheater
45,The Far Roamer
46,The Aboleth's Dream
47,The Storm Stalker
48,The Antagonist
49,The Cuttlefish
50,The Winged Siren
51,Shorebreaker
52,Lady of Black Waters
53,The Slaughtered Brig
54,Righteous Indignation
55,Errant Venture
56,Victory
57,Interceptor
58,Divine Intervention
59,La Pucelle
60,The Skate
61,Two for Flinching
62,Kraken’s Kiss
63,Triton’s Bane
64,Waverunner
65,The Red Falchion
66,The Mayfly
67,The Busty Beluga
68,Mistral Secret
69,The Torrent
70,Black Budgie
71,The Silver Spur
72,The Seafoam Martyr
73,The Dynamo
74,The Brandywine
75,In Amber Clad
76,Misfit's Gamble
77,The Allswell Aboleth
78,Shoshanna
79,Kraken Bait
80,Storm Giants Wake
81,Eye of the Storm
82,The Wailing Wyvern
83,The Shooting Star
84,Blue Inferno
85,Astral Wake
86,Shadow Squall
87,Emerald Cutter
88,The Wraith
89,Hell's Requiem
90,The Omen
91,Crimson Tide
92,Willow
93,Jackdaw
94,The Fairweather Fortune
95,Caballero
96,Shy Mare
97,Neptune's Favor
98,Jupiter's Revenge
99,Humungous
100,The Killing Joke

d100,Entry

1,It has a golden head. It has a golden tail. It has no body. Answer: A gold coin.
2,"It wears a leather coat to keep its skins in working order. Escorts you to other realms, without a magic portal. Answer: Book."
3,It dampens as it dries. Answer: Towel.
4,What has two hands on its face but no arms? Answer: A clock
5,What kind of coat is always wet when you put it on? Answer: A coat of paint.
6,"Many have heard me, yet nobody has seen me. I won't speak back unless spoken to. What am I? Answer: An echo."
7,What five long word become shorter when you add two letters? Answer: Short
8,"What is not alive but grows, does not breaths but needs air. Answer: Fire"
9,"Better old than young; the healthier it is, the smaller it will be. Answer: A Wound."
10,This fire is smothered best not by water or sand but by words. Answer: Desire.
11,"Two friends stand and travel together, one nearly useless without the other. Answer: Boots"
12,"Feed me and I will live, give me a drink and I will die. Answer: Fire."
13,A curved stick and a straight twig means red sap and a snapped trunk. Answer: Death by arrow.
14,No warning of Timber could have stopped the dropping petals. Answer: Death by axe.
15,A fitting cravat for a poorly chosen suit. Answer: Death by hanging.
16,"I build castles, yet tear down mountains, make some men blind, and others see. What am I? Answer: Sand."
17,As I was going to St Ives I met a man with 7 wives. Each wife had 7 kids. Each kid had 7 cats. Each cat had 7 kittens. How many were going to St Ives? Answer: 1.
18,"What do banana, grammar and assess all have in common? Answer: if you take the first letter and put it on the end of the word, reading it backwards they spell the same word."
19,"Twelve men walking by, twelve pears hanging high. Each took a pear and left eleven hanging there. How did it happen? Answer: Each is someone's name."
20,"River bridge crossing, look out for the guards. Can you spell that without any 'R's? Answer: T-H-A-T."
21,"What is it that you keep when you need it not, but throw out when you do need it? Answer: An anchor."
22,"The foolish man wastes me, The average man spends me, And wise man invests me, Yet all men succumb to me. What am I? Answer: Time."
23,What is something that dawns on you even when it shouldn't? Answer: The obvious.
24,"When you come to the end of all you know, I am there. Who am I? HINTS: I start out wonderful, but then begin worse. Answer: The letter W."
25,"What has four legs in the morning, two legs in the afternoon and three legs in the evening? Answer: A Man. when he was a child he crawled on all four, when he was older, he walked on two legs and when he was old aged, he used a cane."
26,"I’m made out of five letters, And I’m made out of seven letters; I have keys but I don’t have locks, I’m concerned with time, but not with clocks. Answer: A Piano."
27,"Forty white horses on a red hill. They champ, they stamp, and then stand still. Answer: Teeth."
28,"I can fly like a bird not in the sky, which can always swim and can always dry. I say goodbye at night and morning hi. I'm part of you what am I. I follow and lead as you pass, dress yourself in black my darkness lasts. I flee the light but without the sun, Your view of me would be gone. Answer: A shadow."
29,"I am what men love more than life, fear more than death or mortal strife, what dead men have and rich require. I'm what contented men desire. Answer: Nothing."
30,Two men drink poisoned Iced Tea. One man drinks his fast and lives. The other man drinks his slow and dies. How is this possible? Answer: The poison is in the ice not the tea. The ice melts in the slower drinker's tea.
31,"Towns without houses, forests without trees, mountains without boulders and waterless seas. Answer: A Map."
32,"Two bodies in one, the longer I stand, the faster I run. Answer: Hourglass."
33,"Men desire me in public, but fear me in private. Answer: Truth."
34,"What is so fragile, even speaking its name will break it? Answer: Silence."
35,What must you first give to me in order to keep it? Answer: Your word.
36,"Though I'm tender, I'm not to be eaten, Nor -- though, mint fresh -- your breath to sweeten. Answer: Money. Legal tender; minted coins."
37,"You never see it, but it's almost always there, and most people quickly notice when it's absent. Answer: Oxygen/Breathable Air."
38,"An untiring servant it is, carrying loads across muddy earth. But one thing that cannot be forced, is a return to the place of its birth. Answer: River."
39,Blessed are the first. Slow are the second. Playful are the third. Bold are the fourth. Brave are the fifth. Answer: Answer: Blade.
40,Brought to the table. Cut and served. Never eaten. Answer: Cards.
41,"It can pierce the best armor, And make swords crumble with a rub. Yet for all its power, It can't harm a club. Answer: Rust."
42,"It is a journey whose path depends, on an other's vision of where it ends. Answer: Book."
43,"Men seize it from its home, tear apart its flesh, drink the sweet blood, then cast its skin aside. Answer: Orange."
44,"Names give power, Magic to control. But what is broken, by naming it? Answer: Silence."
45,"Passed from father to son, And shared between brothers. Its importance is unquestioned, Though it is used more by others. Answer: Name."
46,"Today he is there to trip you up, And he will torture you tomorrow. Yet he is also there to ease the pain, When you are lost in grief and sorrow. Answer: Alcohol."
47,"In the form of fork or sheet, I hit the ground. And if you wait a heartbeat, You can hear my roaring sound. Answer: Lightning."
48,"I have no tears but I perspire, I stretch but cannot respire, I can jump, walk, run and dance, Though I have no mind. I'll take a stance. What am I? Answer: A leg."
49,"The beast of the plains, it goes through the ground, constantly on the search for its next meal. While it hates the taste of dwarves and elves, it loves the taste of halfling. Answer: Bulette."
50,"This thing can stay completely hidden in even the broadest of daylight. In halls and rooms that monster waits to ambush its next victim. Watch out from below, because it is the floor that this thing waits. Answer: Rug of smothering."
51,"In the world below, almost everything below has a heart as dark as their surroundings. This thing is the one exception, giving a light glow in the world of the Underdark. Answer: Flumph."
52,"You keep it, but it never ages. Once shared it is gone forever. Answer: Secret."
53,I can bring down the mightiest of men. Nobody can defy me. I am the enemy of flight. Yet you can’t even sense my presence. What am I? Answer: Gravity
54,"The more you walk on me the more we get along, and while other may still use me, with you is where I belong. What am I? Answer: Shoes"
55,I give mirth and merriment and they say I smell quite old but I can turn a timid man into one that is quite bold. What am I? Answer: Wine
56,"I am green with envy when I am placed below the sky. I do not breathe the air you breathe but I never wonder why. If you go and shelter me, I simply shrink and die. The answer to this riddle is simply who am I? Answer: A plant"
57,"I guard precious treasures and yet my body never moves, but I open like a book when something of yours is used. When finally I'm gutted always feel quite blue. I always feel so useless without the gold that I consume. What am I? Answer: A Treasure Chest"
58,"My body's thin and slender and I grow shorter every day. You can use my single purpose, and I'll be sure to lead the way. When I am placed upon a pastry then my life is soon to fade. What am I? Answer: A candle"
59,"I am what's desired above of all fame and wealth. Without me it's assured that you'll begin to lose your health. I'm not a fluid dancer, but you can put me on a shelf. What am I? Answer: Food"
60,"I give people purpose, I am the gardener pulling weeds. In fact I keep a watchful eye over everybody's deeds. I am the cobbler making shoes I am the blacksmith shoeing steeds. What am I? Answer: A job"
61,"Born by fire, stone, or rain I feel most comfortable at home on the planes. When I am out of my element, I feel much disarray. What am I? Answer: An elemental"
62,"I am gifted to you only when I am unwanted. I have the power to kill kings or the lowliest paupers. My strength is unquestioned and I move far and wide, yet my power can falter from potions imbibed. What am I? Answer: Sickness or Disease"
63,The more you take out the bigger I get. What am I? Answer: A hole
64,"I am green for some time, but blue thereafter. If it is dark, I am likely to eat you. What am I? Answer: Grue"
65,"Up and down they go and travel, but never do they move an inch. Answer: Stairs"
66,8 _ _ _ 1 _ _ _ 2 0' Answer: 549763 (Put all the numbers in alphabetical order)
67,"Halo of water, tongue of wood, skin of stone and long I've stood. My fingers short reach to the sky, inside my heart men live and die. What am I? Answer: Castle"
68,"Flying on invisible wings. I am massive in size. Then if my master commands, I am as small as he wishes. All men wish to own me, but when I touch them, They cannot touch me. I cry when I am with my brothers. Darkness follows wherever I go. I’m a friend, I’m an enemy. I am freedom. What am I? Answer: A Cloud"
69,"A face I do have, but see I do not. When they see my hands, they oft ponder in thought Answer: A watch"
70,"The more you take, the more you leave behind. What am I? Answer: Footsteps"
71,What kind of room can you never enter? Answer: A Mushroom.
72,"What is long, brown, and sticky? Answer: A stick."
73,"What has a head and a tail, can flip but has no legs? Answer: A coin."
74,"What is black when you buy it, red when you use it, and white when you throw it away? Answer: Coal."
75,"What belongs to you, but other people use it more than you do? Answer: Your name."
76,"Tall I am young, Short I am old, While with life I glow, Wind is my foe. What am I? Answer: A candle."
77,"I can build castles, I can stop a flood, I can show the time flow, I can make people blind, I can make others see. What am I? Answer: Sand"
78,"If I'm in front I don't matter, If I'm in back I make everything be more, I am something yet I am nothing. What am I? Answer: Zero"
79,I shine brightest in the dark. I am there but cannot be seen. To have me costs you nothing. To be without me costs you everything. Answer: Hope.
80,"I am taken from a mine, and shut up in a wooden case, from which I am never released, and yet I am used by almost everybody. Answer: Pencil lead."
81,What goes round the house and in the house but never touches the house? Answer: The sun.
82,"What comes once in a minute, twice in a moment, but never in a thousand years? Answer: The letter M."
83,He who has it doesn't tell it. He who takes it doesn't know it. He who knows it doesn't want it. What is it? Answer: Counterfeit money.
84,What goes round and round the wood but never goes into the wood? Answer: The bark of a tree.
85,"I have a little house in which I live all alone. It has no doors or windows, and if I want to go out I must break through the wall. Answer: A chick in an egg."
86,"There are four siblings in this world, all born together. The first runs and never wearies. The second eats and is never full. The third drinks and is always thirsty. The fourth sings a song forever. Answer: Water, fire, earth, wind."
87,"A cloud was my mother, the wind is my father, my son is the cool stream, and my daughter is the fruit of the land. A rainbow is my bed, the earth my final resting place, what am I? Answer: Rain."
88,"Poke your fingers in my eyes and I will open wide my jaws. Linen cloth, quills or paper, all will split before my might. What am I? Answer: Shears/Scissors"
89,"What goes with a carriage, comes with a carriage, is of no use to a carriage and yet the carriage cannot go without it? Answer: Noise."
90,What stands on one leg with its heart in its head? Answer: A cabbage.
91,"It's been around for millions of years, but it's no more than a month old. What is it? Answer: The moon."
92,I met a man with a load of wood which was neither straight nor crooked. What kind of wood was it? Answer: Sawdust.
93,What binds two people yet touches only one? Answer: A wedding ring.
94,"I am the beginning of sorrow and the end of sickness. There's no happiness without me nor is there sadness. I am always in risk, yet never in danger. You will find me in the sun, but I am never out of darkness. Answer: The letter S."
95,What holds water yet is full of holes? Answer: A sponge.
96,"Lives without a body, hears without ears, speaks without a mouth, to which the air alone gives birth. Answer: An echo."
97,What goes into the water red and comes out black? Answer: A red-hot poker.
98,"When one does not know what it is, then it is something. When one knows what it is, then it is nothing. Answer: A riddle."
99,"It is the beginning of eternity, the end of time and space, the beginning of the end and the end of every space. What is it? Answer: The letter E"
100,What tastes better than it smells? Answer: A tongue.

d100,Entry

1,"The Let-Go: A small, metallic box that is riveted with small bumps. The Let-Go was originally sold in toy and trinket shops as a children’s building toy. They were extremely popular with children and adults alike before being removed from shelves due to delinquents recognizing their pure destructive abilities and utilizing said abilities in pranks that more often than not ended with the trigger-er in horrible pain. When stepped on, these metallic boxes would cause searing pain to shoot up the creature’s leg, even being able to punch through the soles of most common boots."
2,"Irvlin's Icy Earmuffs: Upon speaking the command word, these fluffy, crystal clear earmuffs fire two cones of cold in opposite directions, one from each ear (save DC 15). This property can be used once per day. They also keep your ears warm. (Irvlin is not responsible for any damage caused to allies)"
3,"Fidget's Spinner: A mechanical apparatus that, once activated whirls at a disconcerting rate of speed. Can be thrown farther than a usual projectile as it will glide along the air and hit quite a bit harder. Can be bladed or coupled with combustibles for extra effects. Was made as a children's toy, but it’s upsetting lethality showed it far better suited to combat."
4,"Gimble's Fabulous Spring. A high-tension spring device contained in a compacted platform. Can be activated to provide lift, boost a jump, or even to separate heavy objects, however, should the housing be damaged, the energy released by the uncoiling spring can prove spectacularly lethal. Some less scrupulous gnomes have been known to intentionally compromise Gimble's Springs to create traps."
5,"Pimm's Cup: A drinking vessel of average appearance. Through a series of mechanical switches can be used to mix in liquid and powdered additives contained in the outer shell in careful proportion. Originally intended as a layman-friendly potion mixing device, the cup has also seen use in cocktail crafting and poisoning enemies."
6,"Rocky's Favorite Gizmo: Apparently, a strange collection of pipes, wires and odds and ends, careful manipulation of its many valves and switches can lead to a number of effects, although most common is a gout of flame in a 30-foot radius."
7,"Silver Mechanical Door Opener: If attached to a door frame as a full round action and connected to a door handle on an unlocked door and activated as a free action, the mechanical device weighing 25 lbs. will turn a door handle and/or force a door open in 5 rounds as if it were opened with an ability check (Strength) of 14. The object takes 5 rounds to reset and properly store."
8,Det Cord: Gunpowder infused string. Nothing could possibly go wrong!
9,A small wooden toy lumberjack that violently swings a sharp metal axe downwards when pressed the button in its back. Anything under the axe loses 1 hit point.
10,Essential Healing Potion: Heals 2d4+2 HP randomly within the next 24 hours. Made from essential oils.
11,Emergency Quiver: Opening the quiver launches all the arrows forth at once. Make sure you don’t get it confused with your real quiver.
12,"Theft-Deterrent Pouch: Reaching into the pouch requires a DC 10 CON save, or take 2d6 poison damage, half on a success. Wait... how do I get my gold back out?"
13,Ravenous Hunting Trap: This hunting trap primes and triggers itself every hour. Best make sure it not dangling from your belt...
14,"Slightly Larger Torch: This torch provides bright light in a 30ft radius, and dim light for an additional 30ft. However, this added brightness comes from the fact the entire torch is on fire, including the handle. Take 1 fire damage per turn while holding this object."
15,"Weapon Effect - Spiked: These vicious spikes add 1 piercing damage to your weapon! You also take 1 piercing damage whenever you hit on an attack. We put spikes on the whole thing, including the handle."
16,Explosive Bow and Arrow: These arrows detonate on medium-high velocity impact. Beware butterfingers who drop the quiver.
17,"Escape Balloon: In case of emergency, pull the string and a balloon will inflate to fly you away from the danger. Getting back down safely might be harder."
18,Explosive Hammer: For when you really need to pound down the stone wall. The risks of a hammer chock full of explosives should be obvious.
19,"The Magical Alarm Clock: Casts a random spell that you, or someone close, knows to wake you up at the designated time. There's nothing like waking up to a fireball in your travel jammies."
20,A crossbow that launches potions. The chance of exploding on launch depends on the potion container.
21,"Restraining Foam: Everything in a large radius suffers the effect of an entangle and web spell, each with a spell save DC of 16 as the area becomes heavily obscured by a froth that hardens almost instantly into magical foam. Must be manually triggered (no throwing)."
22,"Impervious Sphere (single use): When attacked, you may use your reaction to become surrounded by a protective spherical barrier that lasts for 1d4+1 hours. While within you cannot interact with the outside world (cast spells or be heard, attack, etc. through it) but you can see and be seen vaguely through its curiously pink opacity. The sphere has immunity to all forms of damage and protects you from all forms of damage originating from outside the sphere. You are untargetable by sources outside the sphere. You may move at Speed -10 feet while within the sphere, rolling it along as part of your normal move. It is subject to gravity and will roll down slopes at increasing speeds (DM’s discretion whether falling is technically damage from outside or from your body colliding with the sphere). The sphere is linked to your person - if you teleport, ethereal jaunt, blink, etc. - it travels with you. The sphere contains 1d4-1 hours of breathable air within it."
23,"A pocket watch with a multitude of faces and dials, each tracking the precise time in a different plane. Unfortunately, it is powered by an incredibly tiny rift between our plane and the abyss. If you hold it to your ear you can hear faint whispers of the chaos. If it is ever dropped or left unattended for more than 1 hour, it spawns 1d4 Imps who torment you and play keep away with the watch."
24,"Tantalizing Top: A spinning top covered in different colored gemstones. When you spin it, ribbons of colored lights burst from it and seem to dance around on their own. It requires an action to activate. Every creature (including the spinner of the top) in a 10ft radius must make a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or become stunned by the top's beauty. Any creature that enters the Tantalizing Top's radius while it is activated must immediately make the same Wisdom saving throw or become stunned. At the end of each successive turn, a creature can re-attempt the saving throw. The top can only be de-activated by a creature who is not currently affected by it. It requires one bonus action to stop the Tantalizing Top."
25,"Winston Probt's Goggles of the Vision Miraculous: A pair of goggles that allow the viewer to see at great distances. An affect they achieve by using minor transmutation magic to actually change the physical makeup of the wearer's eyes. Once the goggles are removed, the effect takes 24 hours to wear off, leaving the viewer unable to render anything at a close distance during that time."
26,"Gazlowe's Grabby Hands: A backpack device with four mechanical arms ending in dexterous robot hands (think a Gnomish Doc Ock). Controlled by a helmet the user wears. Each 30 minutes of non-combat use, the user must make a Will Save (DC 10). On a failed save, user is paralyzed for 30 minutes. In combat, user gets one extra attack per Grabby Hand. Each time the Grabby Hands device is used to attack, user must make a Will Save. User declares at the start of their turn how many extra attacks they are making (up to a limit of 4). Each attack made raises the DC by 5. For a single extra attack, a Will Save (DC 5) must be made. For two extra attacks, the DC is 10, and so forth. On a failed save, user is paralyzed for one round. Each hand is capable of operating a weapon with which the user is proficient. Two handed weapons require two Grabby Hands to operate."
27,"Gob's Hood of Hiding: Makes you Look, and Smell, like a goblin - head to toe - dc20 perception check. When you take it off, you no longer Look like a goblin. Oh, the smell? It lingers..."
28,"The Excessively Fluffy Hat of Excessive Warmth: It keeps the character warm in extreme cold, but if the temperature is any higher than extreme cold, the character starts suffering from extreme heat."
29,Anti-thief Backpack Of 'splosion: Anyone taking anything out of the backpack must make a DC15 sleight of hand check. If failed the backpack and all its contents explode in a 20' radius 10d6 fireball. The backpack confers no fire protection to the wearer.
30,"Goblin/Kobold Powered Wheelchair: The main wheels are just overly large, caged hamster wheels. Throw a caffeinated goblin or kobold into each caged wheel, release the breaks and hold on tight."
31,"Steam Powered Pogo Stick: When you want to reach or jump to those pesky high ledges, rooftops, etc. and you need that extra oomph to get there."
32,"A spell work speak & say automation device for the busy mage. A pocket-sized horn speaker and gearwork box used to speak up to three verbal commands used in common cantrips on the back is a slot where you can insert slips of paper with the verbal spell commands. Users can press a button to speak the magic commands, channeling the power from the nearest caster. Machine, however, was never meant to conduct magical energy. Roll 1d10 whenever using it. On a roll of 7, roll for an effect on the wild magic table."
33,"Farbar's Fantastically Fabulous Prosthetic Hand: Replaces your hand and part of your forearm. A prosthetic hand where each finger can be fired like a dart for 1d4 piercing damage (make an attack roll for each one). However, it's activated by fully extending the arm, so don't extend your arm till you want to shoot."
34,The Venomous-Spider-In-A-Glass-Orb Launcher! Just don't drop the ammo!
35,"Whirlypack: A large, heavy backpack with six differently colored ribbons attached. When you pull a particular ribbon, something happens. Red: A 3' metal pole extends upward from the backpack or, if already extended, retracts. Blue: Three large metal blades pop out from the pole or, if already unfurled, retract. Yellow: The blades start spinning. If pulled a second time, they speed up; a third time, they speed up even more; a fourth time, they slow down and eventually stop. Green: A series of small lights running up the pole illuminates; pull it again and they go out. Purple: A flashing light on top of the pole lights up and spins until it is pulled again. Orange: A siren blares. Unlike the other functions, the siren wails as long as the ribbon is pulled; it stops when you let it go. The intention is that the backpack will function like a helicopter. However, it doesn't provide enough lift, even if you're gnome-sized. It's more like a ceiling fan in a backpack, and to that end, it does provide a pleasant cooling breeze. The backpack is powered by lamp oil; one flask will allow it to run for a full minute. (The fuel tank is only large enough to accommodate one flask at a time.) When running, it's quite loud and frequently belches foul-smelling black smoke. If properly employed while falling, the backpack will slow you down enough that you won't take damage, at least until it runs out of fuel (in effect it functions as per a Feather Fall spell). The spinning blades may prove troublesome to foes (and friends) in close combat. Obviously the ribbons are intended to be pulled in the correct order, but given there are no instructions or labels, most likely players will pull the wrong ribbon, which could lead to damaging the mechanism or worse -- for example, if you pull the Blue ribbon before the pole is extended, the blades will pop out, likely skewering whoever is wearing the backpack."
36,"Fireball Flamejet: A reinforced crystalline ball with a hole in one side and a tube protrusion on the other. When a fireball is cast into it, it spurts a jet of flame up to 1,200 feet away that does half the fireball's damage. However, it was only tested with low level casters so more powerful fireballs may cause it to shatter and have the fireball explode in place."
37,"Yuan-ti Finger Trap: If used by one creature: Fail a DC 13 Dex save (or voluntarily fail) to activate the finger trap by holding it between your two index fingers. Then succeed on a DC (20- Int Score) strength check to be able to escape. If another creature is proficient with int saves, they can use the help action to make the DC to escape equal 1. If used by 2 creatures: the enemy must make a DC 13 Dex save against being trapped. To escape, the winner must succeed on a contested Int check against the other creature. Every time you attempt the check and fail, add one more d20 of disadvantage."
38,"Whistle of (1d8, 1: Dragons, 2: Giants, 3: Undead, 4: Fiends, 5: Aberrations, 6: Monstrosities, 7: Fey, 8: Elementals) Summoning: On it it's written in Gnomish: 'Blow to Summon type of creature '. When blown, every creature of that type in a radius of 1 mile will hear the whistle and be bothered by it."
39,"A cup of infinite water. Or at least that was the idea. They just put a small portal to the elemental water plane on the bottom of a regular cup. Unfortunately, they did not think about water pressure, so anytime the (very securely attached lid) is removed, it immediately acts like a power fire hose. Make a strength check to open (the pressure keeps it very tight) and, if opened, make a strength or dexterity check to not go flying uncontrollably. You also have to make a strength check to close it."
40,"Wizzwalds Amazing Cube: This is a light cube made of brass approximately the size of 1/3rd foot by 1/3rd foot by 1/3rd foot. This cube effectively works as a spell magnet, if it is very close to the caster or target or between them, the spells will be redirected and absorbed by the amazing cube. The amazing cube technically has no limits on how many spells it can hold, but every time it absorbs a spell, there is a 10% chance (+ another 10% for every spell after the first it has absorbed) that it will expel ALL of the spells it absorbed in all 6 directions it’s faces are facing. This can lead to some incredibly chaotic results, such as shooting six fireballs out of all of its faces, and then flooding the area around it with water before shooting an eldritch blast at whatever targets are on the correct angles of the cube, or charming 4 separate creatures at once while also issuing a command creature spell making all of them drop their weapons. You can reduce the odds of the cube expelling its spells to 10% if you spend half an hour and expend a spell slot with it. However, any spells it absorbs after this will still add their bonus 10% chance."
41,"Henswallow's Handy-dandy Healing Handcrank: This small metal box has a hand crank with a wooden knob and is designed to be laced onto a belt. Once per day you can use an action to turn the crank as fast as you can. Turning the crank emits the noise of ball bearings rolling in an empty can that can be clearly heard up to 60 feet away and soft, white light begins to escape from the seams of the device. Once the crank has been used, at the end of the user's turn the wearer rolls 4d4. Odd numbers are subtracted from the wearer's hit points and even numbers heal the wearer."
42,"Dodecahedron of Listless Wandering: Once activated this 20-sided sphere 1/3 Khelgars across in size will levitate and move in a random direction at 60ft per round. A creature whose space the sphere enters must succeed on a DC 15 Dexterity saving throw or be struck by it, taking 6d6 crushing damage, and triggers a wild magic surge."
43,"Bouncy dynamite: It’s more fun to tinker then mine, but buying metals is a bit expensive. Maybe if we can get the dynamite to where it needs to be faster it will bring prices down. Just light and throw. Or go for the shock detonation version. Detonates in the, hmm, says on the box, an unknown number of hits, each stick is different, have fun discovering how many each need to detonate."
44,"Automatic Fire Starter: Tired of struggling to light your pipe or campfire with your clumsy mechanical piece? This automatic fire started is enchanted to light in proximity to wood, just bring the lighter up to your pipe and Voila, it's on fire. I might not have thought this through, I'll put it away. Oh, shit did I have a book in there? Yep, definitely had a book in there, I'll be right back, have to put out this robe."
45,"The Jumping Spear: A two-handed spear specially made for smaller races with a spring-loaded spearpoint and footplants on the butt. At any point a small creature can jump on the footplants and slam down to cause the spear to explode violently forward with or without its wielder. Whenever a wielder uses this feature, they must make a check to remain holding the spear. However, on a success it does an extra die of damage on a hit, or alternatively propels the wielder up to 15ft into the air and 30ft horizontally. ——— It’s a pogo stick with a spear attached to it essentially."
46,"Landslide Module: 100lb drill attached to a clockwork mechanism with an explosive core. Once activated landslide module borrows into the earth in a random pattern (roll dice for direction?) dealing and taking damage until it explodes. Great for mining, demolition work or guerilla warfare."
47,"Punfky's Flying Machine: A glider made from spider silk. Enchanted to cast gust (a 30-mph wind if my math’s correct) 30 feet behind and under the glider. It... works, in the way everything works. Let's just say it's not the most stable thing in the world."
48,"Gordex's Elevating Slippers, Lesser: The wearer of these rainbow-colored slippers may activate the slippers as a free action once daily. Upon activating these slippers, the wearer is instantly elevated vertically d6 ×10 feet into the air. During the ascent, the wearer may attempt to grab onto a ledge or any object they can reach as a DC 16 dexterity check. If the wearer has not grabbed onto anything at the end of the elevation, they begin plummeting to the ground and take falling damage as normal. Note: There are rumors that Goredex created a greater version of these slippers, but by all accounts, they were destroyed when Goredex impacted a moon."
49,"Nigel’s Knackered Knife: A knife with the properties of the Ice Knife Spell, which will activate... eventually."
50,Havel’s Handy Hoppers: A bag of caltrops that bounce around like rubber balls once thrown.
51,"Viflicks Incredible Disk: The ultimate Frisbee to keep any sort of beast occupied for hours. Unfortunately, it doesn't actually stop once thrown. Not until it hits something solid like a mountain..."
52,"Reginald's Rock Cracker: A magical war pick commissioned by a dwarven mining guild. Has 4 charges that restore every day at dawn. Every time the pick successfully hits, it expends a charge and casts shatter at 2nd level focused on the tip. Earplugs recommend."
53,"Traveler’s Survival Compass: This small metal cylinder shoots out a number of sawblades to harvest firewood from small trees. Subsequently it fires a gout of flames roughly the same direction to create an instant campfire. This handy tool also provides a sleeping solution, by spraying a large volume of quickly expanding foam for bedding, and it ensures safety at night by periodically sounding an alarm and flashing lights for the user to wake up and survey their surroundings. Gnome-corp is not responsible for any accidents involving faulty compasses and/or flammable bedding. The deluxe version comes with extra sawblades, scented flames, flavored bedding and a variety of alarm sounds and lullabies."
54,"Chilla's Speed Sheath: If a blade is put in this sheath, a small tug will make an opening in the sheath and propel it forward making your initial attack much quicker. Good for surprise attack, unless you are not good enough to make the DC 15 Dex saving throw to prevent it from flying out of your hands or getting lodged into your body."
55,"The Boomstick: A large club with an opening on the bottom which is filled with explosives and a trigger on the top to make them go off. Just a shame that the club isn’t always sturdy enough to take the explosion, so its recommended the user wears some armor to protect them from surprise shrapnel. Oh, and make sure you can stand your ground, the recoil is terrible."
56,"The Excessively Thin Hat of Excessive Cool: It keeps the character cool in extreme heat, but if the temperature is any lower than extreme heat, the character starts suffering from extreme cold."
57,Harry's Heating Gloves: Wearer can wear the gloves to heat up whatever they are holding. If powered on for too long the gloves melt onto the wearer’s hands.
58,"Gilgam's Self-Replicating Rodent Remover: a tiny construct that pursues its designated target and 'removes' it. If multiple targets are detected within its range, it will seek out materials to construct copies of itself. If in the course of locating said materials it finds other targets, then it will add those targets to its list while increasing the number of copies needed to cope with the added number of targets. The off switch is conveniently located on the roof of its mouth."
59,"Hellfire Sphere: A black sphere with a button on it. When the button is pressed, the sphere turns glowing red hot and melts through anything it touches. If not deactivated, it will eventually melt its way through any container holding it, and any surface it is placed on (including the ground). The button, which has to be pressed again to deactivate it, also melts anything it touches."
60,"Wind up Mimic: wind it up and set it down in a room, watch it transform into something inconspicuous. Oh, but make sure not to take your eyes off it or leave the room."
61,"Gloves of Burning: Only function if in contact with the user’s bare skin: on a successful melee unarmed attack wearing the gloves, everything in contact with the gloves takes 2d4 burning damage."
62,"Malputon's Mechanical Mount: a bronze knee-high sphere with a small metal seat and a protruding yoke. Once mounted and started, the sphere wheels along the ground with a speed of 200 feet or quadruple the daily rate of a horse and rider. The seat is poorly stabilized, and the rider must make 10 Dex saving throws (DC 16) for each day of riding, or else fall from the mount and watch as it treadles into the horizon."
63,"Mavis's Instant Malleable Metal: This small metal cylinder has as a plunger on one end that sticks tight to any piece of metal it is placed on. A DC 14 strength check is required to pry the cylinder off. When the command word is spoken, the cylinder casts Heat Metal on the metal it is stuck to until the command word is spoken again, at which point it becomes unstuck and falls off. Invaluable for any blacksmith on the go."
64,"Fizz-Spork's Sustenance Seeder: Wide nozzled rifle with a hose that connects to a large, seed holding backpack. A proprietary mix of seeds are stored in the backpack area, the portions only known to Fizz-spork himself. The user sprays seeds in an open field, in the shape of a pyramid to ensure correct sustenance portions. When done correctly, this will grow a perfect selection of crops, sure to last any village through the winter. Sadly Fizz-spork has been bribed by the local vegetable guilds. So, in reality, it only grows the most bland and rotten of fruits, sure to ruin fruits good name and drive customers to the vegetable guild's market."
65,"Spring-mallet's Mice o' Matic: A helm that is sombrero sized, made of brass and tin, etched to the glories of rodents past. Many wires protrude, sending off yellow sparks when in use. When a user dons this helm, they gain the ability to speak and read any mouse's thoughts in a 100-yard radius. After a few hours of wearing the helm, a user can even start to control the minds of mice. Was designed to be a spying device, as the inventor dreamed of sending mind-controlled mouse spies into her rival's homes. Due to a lack of testing subjects (as of course, mice are the best lab rats, and they already speak mouse), the device merges the mind of the user and mice over time. Prolonged use may lead to the user having a strange desire to make bathroom in wood chips and have strong cravings for cheese."
66,"Radrey Zerz’s Pocket Transport: a four-inch by four-inch by one-inch box that unfolds into a small two wheeled vehicle with a T-shaped handle, propelled by the rider kicking off from one leg. Its base speed is 50ft, but any attempt to ride a distance other than exactly 25 feet requires a Dexterity check DC 18."
67,The Thunder Muffs: Yellow earmuffs that let you hear what thunder sounds like up close.
68,The Acid Club: A 5-foot stick with 3 jars of acid attached to the end.
69,The Fingerpurse: A purse with teeth that closes tightly if it detects that someone has their hands in it. (Coins are meant to be poured out)
70,"magical sparkle torch. Provides more light than a traditional torch as it slowly burns down, if put out the wick returns to its original length, but don't let it burn down all the way or it will explode for 6d6 damage. (it's dynamite)"
71,"Ball Lightning: If outside, every time the ball makes contact with a new surface, lightning strikes it. DO NOT DROP."
72,The Entertainer: A toy for children that pits to people against each other in a game of rock paper scissors and the loser gets hit with what they lost to such as being clobbered with rocks cut with scissors or pelted with paper.
73,Uma’s Amazing Unguent: Applying this grease to your hair or beard gives you a +2 boost to Charisma for an hour! It also makes you vulnerable (x 2) to fire damage until your next bath.
74,Magical Boots of Blinding Speed: These boots greatly increase your movement speed. You are blinded while using them!
75,"Saddle of Safe Evacuation: This saddle is amazingly well constructed and confers either advantage or a bonus to ride checks of any animal with the approximate mass of a standard horse. As an added feature, it can launch the rider 30' into the air simply by applying pressure to both stirrups and shouting, clearly, 'Go!' in any of 32 languages. There's always a 50% chance that the language is one understood by the animal. Upon activation the animal takes 30' worth of falling damage. Without external influence, the users will take 30' of falling damage upon impact. Originally employed as a safety device in Whirrleygigs Spinning Hover Conveyance."
76,"The Quick Carver: A large very sharp knife. When the blade meets resistance, it begins to vibrate to aid in cutting. This may allow the knife to cut through harder objects or to cut through more material faster. The strength of this vibration is random though. When a character uses this knife roll a D20 -5 to determine the vibration's DC. The character must roll a Slight of Hand (DEX) save against this DC. On a failed save the character or another nearby creature or object takes 1d6 slashing damage at the DM's discretion. WARNING - It is not advised to sheath this knife."
77,Dwarf Tosser Catapault: perfect for launching your axe wielding dwarf across caverns or straight into the heat of battle! Parachute and/or impact cushioning and/or healing potions not included.
78,Flying Fire Boots: uses powerful fire explosions to propel you up. Doesn't take provide easy to control direction or speed and has no fire protection.
79,"Lightning Fists/Gloves: embedded with magic to shock those it hits but has no way to designate friend of foe. If you even touch the outside of them, you get zapped. It is unstable when wet."
80,"Dark Vision Goggles: it basically amplifies the existing light in front of you within the goggles. Dim light becomes normal, non-magic darkness becomes dim. Same issue (but worse) as normal night vision in normal or bright light, causing temporary blindness."
81,"Firecracker: throw it in fire, makes cracking noises and sparks, but then explodes into tiny pieces."
82,"Multitool of Amazement contains various tools like wrench, screwdriver, lighter, pencil, torch fuel, taser, flute, mint dispenser, sleeping gas. It's not terribly user friendly or obvious which is which. You can see the problems with mixing them up."
83,"Speedy Ice Skates of Quickness: these ice skates triple your speed on ice and gives you control of direction on ice. You can't slow down at all though, but why would you want to."
84,"The Steam Powered Spoon: A spoon that moves in a jack hammer fashion. It is meant to smash rocks into smaller pieces, making them more easily digestible."
85,"Belmont’s Web of Fire Cube in a Can: By using the pull ring at the top of this tall slender can, the user shoots out a sticky web measuring ten feet in diameter as a ranged spell attack. The web requires a dexterity save or strength save or all those in its area of effect are grappled. One turn after the web has been deployed, it bursts into flames that fill a ten foot by ten foot by ten-foot cube and last 1d4 rounds. The flames inflict 1d8 fire damage per round and characters are blinded while within the AOE."
86,"The Exploding Can: By using the trigger, you activate the oil in the metal can. It ignites a round later and explodes in another round dealing 2d4 in a 5' radius circle."
87,"The Fire Sword: With the press of a button, a small flame increases size to 4 feet long in a sword shape. The Sword does 2d4 Fire Damage. It has a 10% percent chance of Exploding dealing 2d4 in a 5' radius circle."
88,"Phoenix Flares: A new kind of construct that bursts into flame and soars gracefully upwards and elegantly performs aerial acrobatics. Unfortunately its inability to extinguish itself and a few incidents where they burned entire fleets of ships by setting one ship on fire causing the phoenix flare on that ship to ignite and fly into even more ships has stopped any sensible shipping company from buying them , even when having to buy more flares after every sea monster attack."
89,"Filly Lightfinger’s Marble Dispensing Escape Buckle, whereas the wearer secretly triggers the dispensing mechanism that begins to drop hundreds of small spherical metal beads that confound pursuers (and perhaps sometimes the pursued, but I digress...)"
90,"Hare's Legs: boots with straps and springs attached to the bottom. You can jump 20ft. into the air, and a distance of up to 30ft. Every time you land however, you have to make a Dex or str save or twist an ankle."
91,"Astro Goggles: meant for magical stargazing, these goggles will amplify the light of the stars for you! They also let you see any other small amount of light and inform you if it's regular or magical light. If too much light falls into it though, they will begin to burn your eye out."
92,"Tilling boots: A set of shoes that move you along via spinning blades meant for tilling up farmland. You move along at high speeds, with very sharp, fast-spinning blades attached to your feet. What could go wrong?"
93,"Klick's Iron Horse: Originally from the world of Eberron, enterprising spelljammer captains have brought these amazing automata to many worlds. Built to be mounts for Warforged, they resemble nothing so much as a 6-legged Clydesdale. Unfortunately, their turning or braking power lags behind their charge power. They've wrecked entire buildings, thrown riders off cliffs, and generally can be a nuisance if mishandled."
94,"Eksni’s Pointed Beam: a small, discreet metal cylinder that fits into the palm of a medium sized humanoid’s hand. The button attached to the side exclaims “Press Me!” In Gnomish scrawl. Upon pressing the button, a spark of energy ignited inside the tube and projects a beam of red light where it is pointed. If held while used it is uncomfortably warm to the touch, and some models have been reported to spontaneous combust upon ignition."
95,"Flammenwerfer: large gun held like a flamethrower because it basically is one. Torch holder at the front in front of the nozzle. Smallish oil barrel with a piston head at the top with a heavy rock or something to create pressure. When fired, nozzle opens at the front which allows oil to leave by being squeezed out by the heavy piston slowly moving down the oil barrel. When nozzle closes it stops naturally. The oil sprays out a thin nozzle so it’s not too much and can be set alight by the flaming torch in the torch holder but still enough so that it can travel a few meters while on fire. Prone to having fire go back into the pressurized oil container which ends about as well as you’d expect."
96,Leibowitz's Returning Key Fob: A key ring and fob that returns to the user at tremendous speed to pelt them with their misplaced keys for 1d6 bludgeoning damage on a failed DEX save. Leibowitz never did dial back the velocity of the returning enchantment.
97,"Lily's Opening Reversal mechanism: While not entirely useful, it’s certainly innovative. A device that when physically operated into any type of door will make it reverse its orientation of opening, if previously you would need to pull the door to open it, you now need to push it and vice versa. It achieves this by twisting the physical structure of the door on its axis, fast and in a violent way so the hinges are on the opposite side of the door arch. When installed the operator must succeed a Reflex save to not get hit by the twisting door or get hit by 1d4/6 blunt damage."
98,"Absinthe Candle: An inventive yet stupid gnome by the name of Dankel found himself in a dark bar. In an attempt to impress his fellow bar patrons by creating a light just with what he could find around said bar, Dankel soaked a rag in absinthe, pushed it halfway into the bottle and lit the half of the rap hanging out. It did create a fairly bright but unfortunately quite unruly flame... ultimately causing him to drop the bottle to the ground, starting an even brighter and more unruly flame! ...that eventually took the whole bar down with it... An unfortunate accident really, but it led to the invention of a rather effective weapon!"
99,"Gelfe's Hearty Spike: A mechanical spike that is driven directly into the user's heart. It delivers a proprietary blend of potions directly into the bloodstream through the heart giving the spiked user a heightened sense of awareness (+3 to perception checks) and it also gives the user increased anxiety and an unshakable sense that something bad is about to happen. The user is killed if the spike is removed, oh wait."
100,Tanker's Underwater Propeller: A device that a swimmer activates underwater and the user holds on to it with their hands as it propels the use forward 60 feet per round for 10 rounds. There is no off switch. After 10 rounds the machine turns off and can be activated again after 10 rounds.

d100,Entry

1,Shea Longshanks - A human drug lord who has taken control of a wing of the prison and requires rent from others in his wing. He has a group of henchmen and acts as if he is a guard/warden.
2,"Malcer Holden - A well-dressed half-elf necromancer who will not state why he is here. In return for information, he requires spoons, which he provides to his army of undead in hopes of digging his way out."
3,Zenbis Axor - A yellow dragonborn who will not speak to anyone she encounters. She possesses immense magical power but chooses to spend her days solitarily in her cell. Nobody knows the story behind her.
4,Durgar Steely - This dwarf holds an infinitely refilling beer glass and nobody in the prison has ever seen him sober. He is very friendly and can just about speak and walk normally.
5,"Naroxius - The source of annoyance for much of the prison, Naroxius always manages to find a way to vandalize the prison. He has made clear that he will stop at nothing to escape, however all that he has managed to do is anger other inmates and staff. His current cell now consists of a wooden slab in the corner, after he fireballed his previous one"
6,"Argus Shatterhorn - A goliath and zealous follower of a crazed war god. He's seemingly possesses an infinite trove of energy and vitality, laughing and preaching loudly despite being literally skewered to a wall in his cell. Nothing can shut him up short of magical silence, which he doesn't seem to notice."
7,The Witch of Cretchreaver - A very polite sounding woman behind a foot of concrete and a metal door. She requests that you open the tiny hole so that she can get a look at you. She's a medusa with her eyes pressed against the other side.
8,"Slobfoot the Eloquent - An educated, well spoke goblin who tried to incite a political revolution. He gives a very deep, loquacious philosophical speech to the party."
9,"Thaddeus Null - A blue dragonborn and self-proclaimed God. He doesn't seem arrogant beside that, just comfortable and quiet. His followers are magically capable, morally bankrupt people who are trying to break him out as they speak."
10,"The Rat - A wood elf who ratted out his bandit gangmates. Can't be trusted, would sell their own brother for half a smoke. Nonetheless, they keep their eyes and ears open and know a lot about what's happening in the prison."
11,"Randy Shackleford- human, assailed a government agent with sand and authorities now cannot find his name on any records."
12,"The Smuggler - A male gnome. He is the prison supplier who can find almost anything and smuggle it in the prison in exchange for the prison’s currency (smokes, food, etc.)"
13,"Daloriz - A blind vampire who overcame his sunlight sensitivity. He has blindsense, and his power is to the point where he can overwhelm most enemies. When spoken to, he is polite and mentions he has seen the future and knows he must wait here for the right time. Why is this vampire in prison? What is he waiting for? Who is coming? Up to the DM to decide."
14,Takaar 'Two shields' Alzurini - small time dwarf mob boss locked up for extortion and racketeering. He has boys on the outside planning to break him out.
15,"Voracious Veronica - A cannibalistic human who is soft spoken. She claims she was a knight who resorted to 'the worst sin of all' when her position was under siege for months. Her skin is pale, her eyes are dull, and her gaze sends shivers up your spine. You're almost certain she's lying."
16,"Gregor Brutalous - An imposing half-giant with jet black braided hair, dressed in clean formal clothing. He was a psychotic and incredibly powerful warlord, but years after his arrest insists he is trying to atone for his actions. He can easily escape (or so he claims) but refuses to leave as penance."
17,Marros Tarmikos - A merchant who was caught up in a bar fight with some religious fanatics. He knows a few secrets about the prison and seems to be a law-abiding citizen for the most part.
18,Gorgeous Gnurl - An orc pit fighter that lost his champion title to *insert NPC* and in a violent rage murders him and his entire team right there in front of the entire crowd.
19,"Mordekai - Leader of a gang of wererats, he used his rats or 'little friends' to spy on people, and to blackmail them, or to sell their secrets to the highest buyer."
20,"Torun Sacanti - This ex-palace guard was thrown in prison after he gave his friend a tour of the duke's apartments. When asked why he is in prison, he will do whatever he can to distract the party from the question."
21,Tharon Ash - A Tiefling man who was kidnapped for a part in an infernal ritual but was arrested along with the cult when city guards caught them all. He will do anything short of murder to prove his innocence or escape.
22,"Resh - This culinary master in orcish cuisine can barely speak a few sentences in common. Employed in the kitchen, he is known to sometimes get rowdy and confiscate the fingers of anyone who looks at him the wrong way."
23,"Myrca Faro - Quiet and keeps to herself. She seems capable in many skills, decent in a fight, but is distant, mumbling to herself often, though what she’s saying can’t be heard. She was caught with her crew, but one of them testified against her. She doesn’t seem keen on reuniting since she doesn’t know who."
24,The Painted Claw - A charismatic rakshasa who enjoys gaining followers and leading them into a suicide pact. He is sending souls back to his master in the nine hells and he has been captured for now...
25,"Habstrek the Painter - A former cart driver turned serial killer, she's not getting out any time soon; she was captured during a time referred to in the local lore as 'the summer of art', in which she killed and drained the bodies of over twenty prison guards’ family members, apparently out of revenge for their extrajudicial killing of her apparently innocent husband, Algnir Half-Tusk. She's fed via a wand charged with Create Food and Drink, as her cell door is welded shut. Guards hate her above almost all other prisoners, knowing she'd gladly turn her targets into further 'paintings'."
26,"Elgin Powell - charged with a dozen counts of kidnapping, he was a local mob boss’ favorite enforcer - with no bodies ever discovered, the families of his victims were denied even the peace of knowing that they were able to be contacted via necromancy. Reportedly, he kept his charges in a deep mine and they are, one and all, still alive, just shielded from scrying and blood legacy magic. Knows more about kidnappings than anyone local is likely to have ever considered."
27,"Jimmy 'Lumberjack' Jackson - Woodcutter turned assassin. He was brutal, honest, and captured by the palace guards when they asked him to start signing his work; reportedly, he's still working from inside of the prison, except his rates are infinitely more affordable. His signature weapon remains undiscovered - which is a neat trick, considering that it's a massive war axe."
28,"Anna - Kept in a dark room and bound with magic sigils, Anna is a deeply motivated, highly disturbed wandering killer, captured after a five-year hunt by professional adventurers; her modus operandi was to disguise herself as an orphan human child, infiltrate colonial outposts, and then systematically destroy food, water, and medical supplies, forcing the pioneers into madness, murder, and cannibalism. Rumors say that she's responsible for the failure of two nation-states' failure to expand their territories. She's boasted she'd gladly take one another job, if freed."
29,"Rankle the Bookkeeper - A master of puppeteering and palace intrigue, he went from entertainer to information broker in under a year; his spies consist of handmade puppets, each one capable of recording sights and sounds, he extorted vast amounts of funding from select projects and missions, lining his own pocket freely until he was captured under what many consider unusual circumstances. Some say that he did so to protect himself from the palace paladins and clergy, all of whom are above harming prisoners."
30,"Coins and Pouch - Master forgers and loan sharks, these two brothers are a regular feature in the prison yard, dealing out loans with reasonable interest rates and obtaining rarities for other prisoners; it's said that on the day they were brought into the prison, they presented a set of keys to a well-appointed cottage to the chief guard as a token of their appreciation. Ever since, they're under protection and weekly payments continue to provide them with many creature comforts. Every year, on the anniversary of their incarceration, the guard that treats them the best receives a key to another cottage."
31,"Aldac - Former adventurer, expedition guide, reformed arsonist, and now a leader of a prison yard 'exercise group', this monk is a dangerous person; some say that she's building an army, others that it's a cult, and nobody wants to test her in a straight fight since she crippled her last opponent in under ten seconds. Anything that requires focus and determination, she's happy to offer her thoughts on, free of charge - provided that she's shown proper respect first. Her sentence is for a triple life duration - tough luck for her, as her species is a long-lived one."
32,"Thack - A monstrous human, he was a warlord by age fifteen, a respected bandit king at twenty, and captured during his attempt to seize the capital itself, turned over by his own command structure in exchange for lenient sentencing for war crimes. Passionate, charismatic, and mysteriously possessing a keen ear for music, he's an example of what can happen to a Bard if they decide to turn war itself into a performance art. He's making money through the writing of strategic, tactical and logistic guidebooks, periodically singing for the lost days of his misspent youth. He turns twenty-three in a month."
33,"Rejoice-Cried-The-Kraken - Still living her best life, RJCTK is a priestess first, bandit second, and a model prisoner third, choosing to ignore her history of piracy and looting in exchange for running a small group of like-minded believers in the church she's built in her cell; she served as a first officer on the flagship of a vast pirate fleet, choosing who lived and who was sacrificed to her deity, often by slow drowning or something that officials referred to as 'hook dancing'. She makes a few extra coins giving nautical theme tattoos for fellow prisoners, each one a work of art worthy of a church's stained-glass windows."
34,"Prisoner #644 - Captured at the frontier, whatever it is, it's only eaten six times in ten years, each time it was an unwary guard who strayed too close to the sealed cage covered in a thick burlap sheet. It hums at night, an eerie, unsettling event taking place only just before the onset of riots, uprisings, and acts of revenge on a wide scale inside of the prison. Recently, guards have reported that it has started to sing softly. Each of the Dead prisoners killed in the previous ten years are named, one by one, and it chuckled wetly when younger guards approach it."
35,"Kishi the Kid - A 16-year-old changeling who attempted to steal the Crown Jewels. He’s stuck in solitary after using the persona of a guard to start a riot, and is well known for the many he’s started in the few months he’s been here"
36,"Cold Turquoise - The former cult leader of a Dragonborn pirate fleet. Will only talk in Draconian, and will give advice on how to operate a ship at a cost..."
37,Henri Schum - Halfling Mafia-don. Used his resources and cutthroat approach to fund a smuggling operation on rare animals for collectors. Has 2 fingers missing on his left hand and has his 'buddies' rough up any new people who mention them.
38,"Zarakos - Super beefy winged Tiefling. Brought in for attempting to rob a local bank and fly off with the loot, not accounting for the wizards that can cast Fly. Wings are always tied for obvious reasons. Not very smart, but very loyal. If you free his wings, he will follow you and your group until the end. Will carry and fly anyone that needs it"
39,"Kimnuan Shadestalker - Black kitsune assassin. She and her bard troupe would spread rumors about people so others would order hits on them. Specifically in for burning down a village after getting caught by the local authorities. If she can get access to her hands, she can summon a lute and cast spells to become invisible/incorporeal."
40,"Binks Falkhorn- A scribe for 2 generations of very powerful wizards. Has not shown any criminal intent but is ordered to be imprisoned in solitary indefinitely after the wizard went mad and went on a killing spree, showing horrible power. His scribe is the last shred of evidence of the wizard’s work. It would be too dangerous to let the scribe roam free, but it would be foolish to kill him in case his knowledge became useful"
41,Sparkler- A nine-year-old bronze half dragon who just wants to go home to her older brother. She was framed for a crime that she in no way could have committed. She is kept in a dark cell and is the favorite to be abused by the head guard. No knows her actual name because she rarely talks to anyone even when she is allowed.
42,"Xnyxyh Halfheart - Channeling Chronurgy wizard without his spell book. He looks human and is locked up for various crimes. He will help anyone who can get him his spell book. However, if he gets it, he will finish becoming a lich. He does not care for anyone but himself."
43,"Thornbull - an experimental warforged, who committed too many war crimes."
44,"Thragg Jadewolf - half-orc spy. He looks like an ugly human. He is in prison for high treason. He infiltrated border settlements and opened the gates at night, sabotaged the defenses, etc., so the neighboring orc kingdom could conquer the settlements easily."
45,"The masked man - this human wears a cursed mask, which he cannot take off. His crime: He is the elder brother of the current king."
46,"The Wyrd Sisters - Three halfling sisters each identical except for different colored eyes, the Wyrd Sisters are prohibited from accessing the kitchen and mess halls, kept in solitary confinement from each other, and fed separately. This is due to their innate toxicity, their blood, saliva, and sweat producing an extremely toxic poison which when ingested, causes a terrifying and agonizing death in even small doses. They were arrested after their entire village was found rotting the next morning after drinking from the tainted well which they had poisoned. Rumors persist that their natural lethality came from a tradeoff with a powerful Demon."
47,"Semaj Ironscreamer - An elderly Half-Orc Druid who has spent half his life in this cell. He was jailed after being involved in multiple eco-terrorist attacks on mining towns that had been dumping their industrial waste into the nearby rivers. Seen as a kindly grandfather figure by the other inmates and even some of the guards, Semaj is often the peacekeeper between those he can hear from his cell and dispenses wisdom to those who ask. Given the nature of his magic, Semaj is kept in an underground cell with no window and any visitors he receives will be checked for wooden objects and plant matter."
48,"Azar - A former acolyte of the church who used his talents as a thief to steal back religious artifacts from wealthy aristocrats. Until one day he was set up by the Queen dowager to make it look like he was trying to assassinate her with the same knife she had killed her husband with. Is actually completely innocent of this particular crime, but with the weight of the crown bearing down on him his trial was anything but fair."
49,"Vulmon Longroot - A 900-year-old High Elven Bard who was the very first prisoner ever put into this place. His crime? 800 years ago, he had been caught having an affair with all 11 princesses of the area and is actually the reason every member of the royal family has any access to magic."
50,"Tybo the Mad Monk - An incredibly dangerous and violent martial artist who was known to wear the ears of his enemies that he killed in battle like a necklace. After a failed assassination attempt by one of his party members caused Tybo to go mad and kill his party, the Human Monk returned to his roots raiding ships along the coast before he was eventually captured and placed in prison."
51,Irving - he was just an ordinary peasant... until adventurers showed up in his life and destroyed it. After that he has dedicated his life to destroying them.
52,Dean Fisher - human. Scum landlord to good upstanding goblins. forgot to bribe a local official.
53,"Greta Howitzer- A human horizon walker ranger who was once a famed demon hunter. But while hunting members of the cult of Baphomet, she lost her mind in Baphomet's lair. She has the madness 'The world is my hunting ground. Others are my prey.' She now views all humanoids as demons and will go to any length to hunt them down. She was imprisoned after spending her money building a massive maze, kidnapping people, and hunting them down in the maze."
54,"Dominic Halfcastle - Halfling, originally in jail for tax evasion, now known for being transferred due to the murder and consumption of multiple sentients, claims the ability to kill sentients with his mind, has displayed no actual psionic or magical power"
55,"Vestlev the Mad - War criminal of the highest order, he has been moved to a normal prison as a temporary holding place until a proper area is found. He looks old and disheveled but is a mastermind when it comes to the magical arts of evocation. From his cell can be heard incoherent babbling, but do not be fooled, he has escaped before."
56,"Minkus the Feebleminded - Everyone knows it's a mistake that he's in the prison. He's a real sweetheart if a bit soft in the head. Sometimes his cell glows at night though. Oh, and don't let him tell you about his nightmares if he says you were in one..."
57,"Sir Jim Haggins - A true gentleman at heart, he wears his ragged suit proudly. He's perfectly polite in every way. He doesn't look kindly on the poor however, oh no. He detests the poor. So much so that his hunting lodge was full to the brim with human trophies when the authorities finally tracked down 'the Slum-spree Killer'"
58,"Thiggund - This hairy brute is referred to by the only word he heads ever been known to utter. When the villagers of a small farming community found him by the road, surrounded by the brutalized remains of a merchant and his horses, Thiggund was arrested on the spot."
59,Unburned Barty - A slight man with an unassuming smile. He survived being burned at the stake without a single scar. He was moved into isolation after his cellmates kept killing themselves
60,"Billy Pumpernickel - A gnome who is well known and loved in the prison, but actually committed a horrible crime. Everyone just goes with it, and other than the one horrible unforgivable thing, he's just a pretty nice dude. Like 'Hey, there's Billy. Yeah, he mutilated a few kids, but only once. Nice guy.' (Edit: This would just be hilarious when the players try to come to terms on how to treat him)"
61,"The Time Master - Real name, age, sex, & race unknown. (S)he exists 5 minutes in the future. The cell was locked, and an empty plate appeared with a note. The note had an explanation and instructions. 'Please place a full plate inside the cell each time an empty plate is discovered. Failure to do so will create a paradox and subsequently release the prisoner.'"
62,"Elwe - An elf who walks through the corridors of the prison as if he was someone free, talks to the guards and other prisoners as they were friends. Says he is in prison due to stealing, is actually hiding from the king, who wants to kill him since he killed his father"
63,"Ozob - An old looking human with hair only on sides and a fire potion (Molotov) where his nose would be. Always angry. Whenever someone looks wrong at him, he says: you are so annoying I might sneeze."
64,"Walks-Winding-Paths - A tabaxi shadow monk, she is kept in a fully lighted cell at all times, wearing glowing enchanted clothing. She is only fed by guards under a faerie fire spell, as otherwise they would cast a shadow which she could teleport into to escape. She will attempt to convince a party member to give her a cloak, bowl, or other object to block the light with."
65,"Garth the Radiant - A paladin of the fallen angel Zariel. His guards are ordered to hit him every time they see him meditating or praying, as that would let him regain the spells, she grants him and summon his enchanted mace, Purity, to destroy his cell. If the party can bring him his weapon, or even give him ten minutes of peace, he will consider himself honor-bound to grant them a favor upon request. If their aims align with his, he might even fight alongside them."
66,Nibbles - Literally just a warlock cat.
67,"Iydis Tyger-Eye - Former Guld Leader, she is high level Fighter and also a Were-Tiger. Killed the heads of other Were families, in an attempt to seize power and take control of the protection of the city, and its criminal underworld."
68,Rollins - Air School Elemental Wizard. Believes in Anarchy and Equality of all races. In jail for starting a revolution and killing the Queen.
69,Herman - Normal human who built Mythic Bracers of Shatter that are only attuned to him. Had used the Bracers to gain access and rob several small vaults. Then he was caught by an adventurer after going for heist to rob a merchant banker when he refused to harm others to escape with the goods. He refuses to teach/sell the knowledge of how to make the Bracers as he doesn't want others to use it to harm someone.
70,"Roscoe Tealeaf - A well-dressed halfling who smells of saffron. He brokers deals between prison factions. It's no secret that he is trying to escape. He claims he was framed by a noble, or maybe arrested breaking into the noble's vault. He'll tell anyone who asks that the noble has a dangerous artifact. Roscoe is a lore bard that specializes in counter spell silence and general magic user shutdowns."
71,"John 'Musical Manipulator' Green - Half-elf, in jail for making a whole court dance for hours on end to prove a philosophical point that the upper class will just do as they say to hold up appearances and are so comfortable in their wealth, they can watch it be taken away and redistributed."
72,"Colin Green - human. John's half-brother who supported him and helped with a second set up hands to pull off music. Tuomas Yurke - elf. the voice and magic behind all of this. Started to talk to John about these thoughts and with a few others began to flesh them out into a more concrete thought and into a sound. Loved by the low class, anticipated and loved by the upper class even though it is all a misunderstanding. The three of them are located at different corners and different levels of the prison so the music can't come together and convince guards to open up cages. Mail comes from them from all over. 2 members of their group are still at large."
73,"Vaelh'noo - Githyanki sorceress who once commanded a powerful fleet in the astral sea before she was captured in a botched raid. Her secret is that she allowed herself to be captured to escape the wrath of the lich queen, whom she plots to overthrow from the safety of her cell."
74,"Quikiliar - A doppleganger (Rogue). Thrown into prison for impersonating a person of high authority, they’re known for frequently making their way into guard chambers by pretending to be one. They can get access to a lot of things if you ask for it, but almost always ask for some odd favor or trinket, usually personal, like a lock of hair or an image of someone loved."
75,"Locke - Once a guard themselves, this warforged fighter was sent to jail after attacking someone due to a misinterpretation of their actions. Unfortunately, this was also another guard with good standing with the warden, who had them put in. They serve their time willingly but can be interrogated or otherwise convinced to disclose explicit info about the prison and its guard shifts and similar."
76,"Breeze - An air genasi artificer, she was thrown into jail after selling several infused items for high prices and then the infusing a different item. Since then, she’s gotten in good favor with guards and other inmates by enchanting some magic items and plans to use these favors and connections to escape at some point."
77,"Zaurok - A Goliath Barbarian, although he acts calm and meditates. Known for the rare outbursts, during which he flies into a rage after being provoked or possibly from being disturbed while meditating. The several escape attempts that’ve happened are from him simply breaking the jail bars. Since then, he’s been relocated to a cell made out of adamantine."
78,"Slicer - Kenku cleric. Devoted to a god of trickery, they gained their name after a particular... Prank, on part of their god. Around the jail will often prank the various inmates but is also known to make distracting sounds at the guards at night. Likely to be able to convince with shiny objects to prank someone or create a distraction."
79,Color-of-Blood - An insane Tabaxi woman incarcerated for eviscerating several people. Can often be found singing quietly to herself songs usually about 'meal preparation'. Is usually docile and doesn't react to being talked to unless threatened which she may attack while loudly singing '50 ways to skin a human.'
80,"Reginald Mark - A mild mannered human male incarcerated for a chain of serial killings. He claims he's possessed by a banshee, but no one believes him. His speech has a feminine undertone and his skin is cold to the touch. Those who threaten him are usually found in the morning choked to death with a horrifying look on their face."
81,"Tee’vah - Tiefling rogue who doesn’t seem too upset to be there. If approached he will happily show off a copy of his wanted poster, listing crimes from arson to murder. Secretly a doppelgänger who is honestly just trying to provide for his family and have some fun. Can break out any time he wants."
82,"The Dread Pirate Azuzula, Roger, and Primten - A Tiefling, an earth genasi, and an air genasi. Azuzula seems useless but the other two are competent sorcerers. Despite this they follow her words to the letter. In for piracy. Azuzula can’t spell and keeps ranting about her ship the Doom Squid. Will challenge people to fights."
83,"Taryon Sandstone - A half-elf paladin who used to be a slave fighting in gladiator pits. After gaining his freedom, he vowed to fight for the freedom of other and became a powerful hero. After the tragic loss of a close friend, he went on an overzealous crusade against slavers, killing them and their family as well as anyone who had in any way helped them (ship captains, harbor employees, food/clothes/rope vendors, blacksmith, etc.)"
84,"Tilby Valenois - A gnome mage of sorts who has committed zero crimes besides somehow breaking into a maximum-security prison and... staying there? The security guards have tried to get him to leave numerous times but usually get charmed or subdued out of it magically. Nobody knows why the gnome wishes to be there, but he hasn’t been messing with the order of things much."
85,"Adelai - A rather amicable young woman. Nobody knows for sure what she's in for, but general consensus is that it involved a basilisk head and the water supply to a small town"
86,Vass - A large orc man that was used as a phylactery for a lich. Vass has been hearing whispers of the lich in his mind and is slowly being possessed. He has started doing horrible things under the influence of the lich. Performing Magic’s that he has no right to know.
87,"Endeer - A being that inflicts his victims with horrible nightmares in each of these nightmares a horrifying creature appears to the dreamer and offers them the opportunity to “Loose yourself from the chains of your labored slumber” if the dreamer accepts, they never sleep again as their mind descends in to horrible madness"
88,Cultists of the Basilisk - These cultists are attempting to create the creature they worship a terrible all-knowing basilisk they know that they will be successful and that the basilisk will destroy anyone who knew about him and didn’t help create him so they only share their beliefs with those they deem helpful or worthy of death
89,"Arnold Long - A half orc/elf, he looks like a giant of a human and seems pleasant to be around in a group of people. While it appears, he is a big stupid sweet teddy bear of a person, his record is full of brutal killings that may or may not have happened. The last killings were not too long ago after a prison gang isolated Arnold in the showers and bribed a guard to not interfere. Long story short, the gang WAS major player in the prison, now all of its muscle IS dead, and the guard went missing. Arnold is to be handled with care and kindness."
90,"The 'Statue of The Maiden' - It looks like a statue of a naked elven woman that was bought by a merchant (deceased) from an artist (deceased) who sold it to a noble (deceased) for a gift to his wife (deceased) and children (deceased). All that is known is the statue moves when not observed and will eat and clean itself. It leaves flirtatious messages for the guards it likes and death threats to the guards it hates. The artist swore on their deathbed it was a mistake for them to create it but, this is the only place it has been stored where it does not kill thought it has maimed a few people who fail to respect it. Attempts to remove, destroy, or study it has been 'unfruitful and unwise'."
91,"Inspector Brundt - A beardless dwarf imprisoned for the crimes of tax evasion, swindling, theft, and gross debt. He knows how to get things and bribes the guards to get luxuries and messages through the prison walls."
92,"Tur the Kobold - He seems stupid and harmless. Everyone assumes he's just a patsy who took the fall for a bigger criminal. Occasionally, though, he lets something slip that only someone high-level in a criminal organization would know."
93,"Axe Hands - A warforged barbarian who found great success as a military shock trooper, but also was involved in an incident where he dismembered a commanding officer. Sees prison as an 'extended furlough” and is convinced he'll be let out when the next war starts."
94,"Clara - A human paladin. Recruited into the military, she was driven mad by the trauma of war and turned oathbreaker. Jailed for the same incident as Axe Hands, having used her healing abilities to keep their victim from bleeding out after being dismembered. Lives to see people suffer but remembers enough of her pre-oathbreaker life to maintain a kind, innocent facade when it suits her."
95,"Harald Silverfinger - An elf wizard who sees humans the same way a scientist sees a bucket full of white rats; testing fodder. They're close enough to elves to be useful for experimentation, but short-lived enough that killing them really isn't a big deal. It's rumored that the local guild is secretly helping him continue his work, using his fellow prisoners as test fodder."
96,Verdos - A dwarven female cleric. Believes she was morally just in murdering the children of a local village. Full of righteous anger. Judges everybody according to her own warped and insane moral code. Can often barely be understood. In maximum security for obvious reasons. Can offer a range of cleric services at prison prices.
97,"Tabitha Binks - A Tabaxi Rogue. An orphan growing up on the coast, she quickly fell in with the Revelry pirates. Tabitha learned to use her claws as lockpicks and may teach other Tabaxi how to as well. She was caught at sea after ambushing a wealthy fur trader."
98,James the Changeling - A male changeling known for impersonating the guides and has so far escaped every prison he’s been in. He’s a new inmate already planning his escape.
99,"??? - the cell appears empty, save for a stool. Could be they're just using it for storage. But, then why does that stool make the hairs on the back of your neck stand up?"
100,"Ood - A very old, frail and nearly paralyzed Illithid who sits still in solitary confinement, his blind eyes wide open, and only blinks or changes his position once or twice per year. Said to have messed something up when attempting to become an Alhoon. Nobody knows why he's there, but he occasionally sends nearly unintelligible telepathic riddles to the other prisoners. Rumor has it he has invaded the minds of everyone in the prison and lives vicariously through their dreams at night."

d100,Entry

1,Patches of red scales along the Tiefling's arms.
2,Tiefling's eye color is inverted in their reflections.
3,"Sheds skin once every 66 days, in the 6 days up to the molting the skin becomes gray and flakey, until it can be peeled off."
4,"Horns grow forever, and must be filed weekly before becoming heavy and hindering."
5,"Organs are reversed, pulse on right side etc. (I know that IRL the heart is in the center and only leaning left, suspend the disbelief please)."
6,"No nose, rather holes that expand and shrink like a snakes."
7,Smell with their (possibly forked) tongue.
8,Can't grow facial hair other than an ominous-looking goatee.
9,Can't lie while at least 25% submerged in a natural body of water.
10,"Sweat turns to steam immediately, although not boiling or even hot."
11,"Voice is a natural harmony, due to three sets of vocal chords."
12,"One hand has fingers with five sections each, the other has fingers with two sections each."
13,Their horns grow like the branches of a tree and split at the ends that need to be trimmed like a bonsai.
14,An insatiable lust for spicy foods.
15,"Sleep with eyes open and rolled back, snoring in ancient incantations."
16,"When sneezing, you briefly change appearance as if to polymorph into a demon or aberration of some sort."
17,Your tail acts in the same manner a cat's would.
18,"When inebriated instead of tripping over yourself or slurring your words, you gaze into nothing and whisper infernal phrases."
19,Tiefling's facial hair is constantly smoldering.
20,Tiefling's shadow is 3 times bigger than it should be.
21,Tiefling has multiple pupils and/or no irises.
22,Tiefling sees images of the Hells when looking through opaque translucent materials.
23,"Tiefling has a strong inclination towards formal speech, documentation, and formatting agreements/relationships as contracts."
24,Tiefling causes recently picked small vegetation to wilt immediately upon skin contact.
25,Tiefling is nearly/completely identical to parent of the same sex.
26,Tiefling derives a sense of comfort when faced with noticeable tension between two present parties.
27,Tiefling cannot blink or shed tears.
28,Tiefling has innate dislike of precise and/or complex geometric symbols.
29,"The Tiefling has two large horns, each of which has a red crystal carved/implanted into them."
30,"The tiefling's tongue is that of a serpent, giving their voice a hissing sound."
31,The tiefling's eyes burn with the fires of their demonic ancestry.
32,The tiefling is devilishly handsome.
33,An Abyssal Rune is scarred into their back.
34,"Tiefling can smell any holy water within 20 feet, it is mildly irritating to them."
35,"Tiefling's hands are backwards, their palms are where the backs of their hands should be."
36,Tiefling has spines like a porcupine's instead of head hair and facial hair.
37,Teeth are regenerative.
38,Sleeps hanging by tail like an opossum.
39,Only has 8 fingers (including thumbs).
40,Has two sets of eyelids.
41,Can control body temperature (dropping or increasing at will by several degrees).
42,Has a spellscar where sorcerers/wizards/warlocks can draw magical power from.
43,Is disgusted by anything not humanoid.
44,Breath smells like brimstone.
45,Covered with birthmarks shaped like infernal symbols.
46,Face always obscured in shadow.
47,Flames flicker across the back of the hands.
48,Each day a new tally mark scar appears on the skin.
49,Tiefling is blue and cold to the touch.
50,The tiefling's preferred sleeping spot is a burning coffin.
51,"Tiefling has tusks instead of fangs, almost like an orc's."
52,"Makes domesticated animals nervous--disturbs messenger pigeons in their roosts, sends cats yowling from the room, etc."
53,Has two little nubs on the shoulder blades where wings would ordinarily be.
54,"Infernal Shadow: this Tiefling's shadow has its own weight, even though slight, is noticeable by other creatures when it rests upon them."
55,"Antlers that grow like a wreath starting 2"" behind the ears moving forward."
56,The tiefling has pearly black skin with gold marble veins.
57,"Vertebrae are raised slightly, like pointed peaks."
58,"Secondary set of eyes set below a typical pair, one set for normal light, the second for darkvision."
59,Only sleeps standing up.
60,"‎Leaves behind brimstone soot on surfaces, especially in it's bed."
61,Spilled fresh blood is dark and gets brighter as it ages out of the body.
62,Hair flows and floats as if underwater.
63,‎Reflections are tripled.
64,‎Bones feel creaky under a full moon.
65,‎Four extra canine teeth on the top and bottom jaws.
66,Each step made on earth bare-footed leaves a charred footprint.
67,"Hundreds of healed gashes cover your back, Though you've never been whipped."
68,"You carve tiny apocryphal sigils into your skin with fingernails as you sleep. If someone with a mind for puzzles and a knowledge of infernal can decode the script, it will reveal a minor demon's true name."
69,"Your tail, if somehow detached from your body, will grow back in a month and a half, as the old one turns to a jagged obsidian, too brittle to work."
70,"The Tiefling's shadow shivers visibly, and sometimes twitches and jerks in an unnatural manner."
71,"The Tiefling attracts their own blood gravitationally, with the blood being otherwise unaffected by gravity."
72,The Tiefling's tongue is covered in sharp teeth.
73,Small clouds of soot appear as the Tiefling exhales.
74,The Tiefling's teeth can be folded backwards like those of an anglerfish.
75,The echo of your voice returns in Infernal.
76,"Followed by a loyal servant that no one else can see, hear or feel."
77,"When laughing nearby fires sputter, spark and release sulphuric smoke."
78,"In the presence of priests, monks or clerics can only speak in sing-song rhymes."
79,The slightest touch on their skin leaves a black imprint that fades a few seconds after the pressure stops.
80,"Their blood glows like magma, and turns into solid glass/obsidian soon after leaving the body."
81,Pupils/irises look like a highly reflective metal and act as mirrors.
82,"A ring of long, soft fur grows around the tiefling's neck."
83,"Long, black claws in place of nails that cannot be cut, only filed."
84,Candles are snuffed as if by wind in their presence.
85,"Short, bobbed tail where a long, pointed one ought to be."
86,"All bodily fluids (blood, spit, etc) are pitch black and shine like oil."
87,"Grass dies wherever they stand, sit or lay for an extended period of time."
88,With every beat of the tiefling's heart there is a surge of heat through it's body.
89,"You are inexplicably drawn to music, but you can never understand how to create it."
90,"Small, heatless flames flicker across your skin when you're angry."
91,You understand the thoughts of reptiles.
92,"Any fire within 5 feet of the tiefling burns dimmer, but hotter."
93,"All bodily fluids are replaced with blood. You will cry, urinate, vomit, and sweat blood."
94,Their breath is icy cold and fogs in all temperatures but the coldest of winter.
95,"Their only otherworldly feature is their horns, which they constantly file close to their scalp to attempt to look more human."
96,"Has an extra set of teeth on their lips, outside of their mouth."
97,The tiefling doesn’t open its mouth to speak. It’s voice seems to emanate from some source deep within the bowels of the creature.
98,Shadow effects physical objects by touching their shadows and is darker than normal.
99,Naturally black bones.
100,Hair grows in different colors randomly.

d100,Entry

1,"A young dragon that was permanently shrunk by cursed magic, and is unable to speak in any form. Will take hundreds of years to mature and is learning magic by being a familiar and observing spellcasters so as to learn how to undo his curse."
2,"A horrible looking humanoid homunculus with sharpened teeth that must eat human flesh as food, and eats nothing else. Will pursue food on his own if not fed, but is otherwise perfectly docile."
3,"A baby peryton, that loves to hunt small animals and kill them for food and fun. Hates elves, and loves to make it known. It's shadow is that of a tiny humanoid flapping its arms as it flys."
4,"A normal familiar creature, but with a pouch on its belly, where it keeps various trinkets and valuables. Obsessively steals trinkets and valuables if left unattended."
5,"A tumor that has grown on the spellcaster, has a tiny mouth and grows sparse hair, may have an eye or two. It posses its own brain and has an excellent memory, but little intelligence. can recite spells perfectly but lacks the intellect to carry a conversation or ask any questions."
6,"A tiny construct that chirps and whirrs as it flys around. Possesses a small glass orb of magic that may be used for scrying. Prefers spellcasters with missing arms or hands, so it can change shape and take the form of the casters appendage for as long as it desires to."
7,"A small fire elemental vanished from the plane of fire shaped like a black cat, leaves black ashen tracks everywhere it goes. It can be commanded to summon its tiny fire powers to explode damaging everything around it, but like most cats, is temperamental and difficult to control or command."
8,"A clockwork badger. Dig speed 30 feet, will straight up ruin the day of anything it doesn't like."
9,A particularly spiteful faery that's run away from home and latched onto you because it likes the color of your eyes. Occasionally changes your hair color in the middle of the night and refuses to be told what to cast or when.
10,"An egg, with legs. Nobody's been able to crack the shell yet, but it's convinced you're its mother, and will probably attempt to eat the rest of the party when it comes out of its shell."
11,"A tiny alligator. Like ridiculously tiny, three inches long at most. The only way you can tell it apart from a newt is it occasionally latches onto a finger and draws blood. But it's very good at sneaking into and out of places."
12,"Micro-dragon. If it curls up, it fits into the palm of your hand. You found it in your gold pouch one day clutching a single gold piece, and it refuses to let go. Can produce a small flame as with Prestidigitation."
13,"A Fuster Cluck. A rooster with comically large wattle and tailfeathers. The cosmic rules governing reality tend to bend near this strange creature, resulting in things going terribly, horribly, implausibly wrong for a creature nearby."
14,"Enchanted, sentient spectacles that has way better passive perception than you do. Whispers in your ear when it's seen something you haven't. Occasionally likes to play pranks by insisting there are monsters nearby where there are none."
15,"A Personal Assistant Imp, four inches tall, who lives in a cage. He tells time, he takes memos, he reminds you of important dates! He usually does a poor job of it. Yes, I've just started reading Terry Pratchett, why do you ask?"
16,A succubus the size of a halfling.
17,"A small variant of a winged serpent. It has a tiny lightning breath, and can fly unhindered in storm clouds."
18,"An animated sapling. It can blend in perfectly with trees as long as it closes its eyes and mouth, stands still and is on a spot that would normally grow such a tree."
19,A platypus. It has a poisonous claw attack.
20,A sea otter. It can move freely (35 feet) on both land and water surfaces.
21,"A giant slug. It has a movement of 10 feet. It regenerates hit points at an extremely fast rate. It can be placed on any kind of surface for an hour (except for salt) and gain resistance to attacks of that element by absorbing some of it. It also has a ranged acid attack, that can corrode metal slowly."
22,"A small, burrowing, armored worm. It can move in dirt at movespeed of 25 feet. Above ground it can move at 35 feet. It has tremor sense."
23,"A small feline creature with rainbow colored insect-like wings (flyspeed of 30 feet). It can cast color spray once a day. It is very energetic and enjoys hunting for small fey creatures like pixies, though it is easily outsmarted by them."
24,A ferret with impossible colorings and patterns in its fur.
25,"A goldfish. Yes, the fishbowl is required. If the goldfish is happy you find it easier to hold your breath. You have advantage on con checks for doing so."
26,A chihuahua with a lions soul trapped in its body.
27,A penguin. It may or may not be hiding an egg between its legs. The egg may or may not be a penguin.
28,"A featherless hawk. It can’t fly, but it sure is funny to look at."
29,A chinchilla that when given an opportunity for a dust bath emanates an aura causing intense positive emotions.
30,"A small fairy that can tell you where the nearest pub is when you enter a new city, based on the scent of ale."
31,A house tarrasque.
32,"A tiny bard that lives in a music box, except it will only sing a song about wanting the box to be closed again."
33,"A lamia, but with the lower half of a mouse."
34,A tiny treant in a small clay flower pot.
35,"A magical flying origami swan. It can detect the aignment of living things, and reacts accordingly."
36,"A tiny sandstone golem, that carries a tiny umbrella, which it uses to glide around. It has enough strenght to jump on a shoulder."
37,"A yellow electric rat. It has a weak lightning attack, and it's tears can cure petrification."
38,"A sentient knife tied to a long and thin string. While it cannot fly, it can propel itself in any direction (kinda like a jellyfish), and will promptly attack anyone who menaces it's master."
39,"A mummified cat, that seems indifferent to anything that happens around it. Does not need to sleep, eat or drink, even though it does all of that frequently. Also, it is an unlimited source of dusty toilet paper."
40,"A small dog, like a chihuahua or a pug. It can speak, but ONLY one-syllable words."
41,An albino raven that occasionally speaks and more rarely has visions of the future.
42,A silver sphere the size of a juggling ball. It can roll around and jump short distances and can detect the presence and intent of magic and acts accordingly.
43,"A tiny grey ooze that can psychically communicate with any creature it touches, it can only communicate general ideas and not specific words this way."
44,An animated shrunken head that can fluently speak common.
45,An enchanted octopus that can survive on land indefinitely and can change it's color and texture on land as well.
46,A Velociraptor wearing a top hat and monocle that generally scoffs at fighting.
47,A Will-o-Wisp that lures strangers to owner of the familiar without warning the owner.
48,A Cloud Otter; an otter with white or gray fur that can swim through the air.
49,"An Animated Object, for example a large wooden spoon, that complains whenever it is not be used to fulfill it's purpose."
50,A cybernetically-enhanced housecat.
51,"A demonic 'possession' creature; can only possess common tableware (spoons, knives, forks, plates, napkins, salt/pepper shaker, etc.)"
52,A vulture that vomits ale as a defense mechanism.
53,"A lump of enchanted patchwork flesh that turns into any of the monsters on this list with their associated ability, for 12 hours (d100 for what it turns into)."
54,"A baby. For everyone else, this IS a baby; to the owner, it is a living embodiment of their own magical will. It cannot be killed by mundane or magical means, and for all intents and purposes is indestructible; but if the spellcaster is damaged, the baby is damaged (which also means, if the spellcaster dies, the baby dies). Think 'Portrait of Dorian Gray', kinda. Additional: a psychic link between caster and baby reveals the baby is himself--and thus, can converse with the baby/himself psychically or verbally (but the baby cannot speak, itself). It is able to move--'crawl'--up to a few meters away, and can share what it sees with the caster. Basically, it can do baby things, and obeys commands that the caster gives it, to the physical limit of a baby. Note-slash-edit: using the baby as an object (re: 'I'll just go around and beat everyone with it then!') saps the spellcaster of any goodness inside them--the more evil they become, the more blackened, bruised, and ugly the baby gets."
55,"A lion turtle (yeah, THAT lion turtle. Not super huge, as it ain't too old yet--think 'average tortoise'-sized. Which, I also suppose, means it's still in it's infancy?). Can either: hold extra spell slots for the caster, or turn one spell per day into a spell level higher (turtles' choice--which, really, is GM's choice), cast a random spell as needed, or finally, lets it's owner reroll a saving throw (boost of luck)."
56,"A tiny metal (or clockwork) danger noodle--er, snake--that only the spellcaster knows is animate. Can either be the size of a ring, a necklace, or a belt (re: growth/shrink)."
57,"A ventriloquist dog--upon receiving, spellcaster goes permanently mute (until dog is no longer their familiar). Dog speaks for them in a perfect accent of your choice (although German just sounds inherently funnier)."
58,"An animate shillelagh, imbued with the spirit of a dog. The top half/thicker half is carved to look like the face of either an English bulldog or a corgi (dealer's choice)."
59,"An old silk hat. Place on a mound of matter, to become a golem of said matter. Once belonged to a wizard."
60,"Mushroom Jesus. A Small-sized anthropomorphized fungi that you can eat pieces of that will save you... from starvation. Regenerates each day. When not being eaten, is rather enjoyable to be around. Immune to poisons."
61,A squirrel with naturally occurring plates of bioarmor (re: pangolin).
62,"A thousand year old vampire alligator. Eats ideas, concepts, words; libraries are grocery stores to him, whereas taverns have the highest-quality foods."
63,A green fox that laughs like a small child. Provokes a chance of madness in those who tell it bad jokes.
64,The spirit of a town drunk. The drunk is not dead; his spirit just leaves his body whenever he becomes 'blackout drunk'. Useful as much as you think a spirit would be.
65,"Bees. You wear their 'queen' in a golden amber oval around your neck; it cannot be stolen, as it has adhered to your flesh (it just LOOKS like it's a necklace). Eating/drinking your hive's honey imbues more magical potency. Making/drinking mead doubles it (but, it's mead, so it'll getcha drunk). The honey potency only applies to you, but the mead can be sold and applied to anyone--but again, it's mead, so it'll get them drunk."
66,"A magical, sentient brick that can communicate with you telepathically."
67,A cat-sized Praying Mantis.
68,An ancient tortoise with lichens growing on its shell.
69,"Firebat - engulfs in flames on demand, lighting an area of 20ft of bright light and 10ft of dim light. Does 1 fire damage to anything it touches but can not spread for. Can give it one simple command as a bonus action."
70,A 10 inch tall brass Golem capable of following simple instructions; it makes a happy whistling sound when it completes a task and often watches its master with great curiosity and will try to mimic them.
71,"A small pink blob like humanoid (Speed 20ft). Has the same ability of a bottomless bag, with an additional ability to act like a weak vacuum. It has low intelligence, and can only make baby noises."
72,An animated feather that writes whatever the owner wishes in anyones' handwriting if treated nicely and is provided ink.
73,"A small palm sized cube slime. Can be placed in any room and will relay what has been spoken when the owner holds it telepathically. It must be fed small rodents and insects daily, or it will dissolve."
74,A wornout living wizards hat. A tear in the front acts as a mouth for it to speak. It is able to tell the user of obsure events they may have missed that happen as the PC progresses. (Reroll on spot or search checks)
75,A very long wooden snake that generally wraps around the users neck like a scarf. When commanded it can straighten out into a monk staff that deals 1d8 dmg. It will die if caught on fire.
76,"A pocket sized frog that when placed on the ground grows to the size of a war horse. It is a mount that can jump vertically equivalently to the PC's speed, and moves at double the PC's speed. It can shrink back down when commanded. If it lands on an enemy smaller then it, it deals 1d10 dmg."
77,"A parasite that has lodged itself into the PC's brain. It can communicate to the user, however the user must verbally talk to communicate back. It is able to tell the alignment of whoever the user is talking to."
78,An undead skeleton hand that is placed upon the users hand. It gives a bonus of +2 to dex checks as it sometimes takes control of the PC's hand to help out.
79,A palm sized spider that can mend any fabric based thing that it is told to by its owner.
80,"A finger sized eldritch deity that gives +2 necrotic dmg to rthe PC's attacks, as well as a 10% chance to cause madness to the target of a PC's spell for 1d4 turns. A pact must be made with it to help it seize power of a realm."
81,"A mimic that stays as the users backpack. When thrown at an enemy it attempts to devour it against a strength check. If it fails then it just does 1d4 damage and ,ust be retrieved by the PC."
82,An invisible spirit that can't talk. It has the mage hand spell as an ability.
83,"A large parrot that is able to translate the more common languages, but yells the translation directly into the spellcaster's Ear."
84,"A small cat-sized Owlbear that has a natural aptitude for finding things (+1 on investigation rolls). Like most Owlbears it has a large appetite and is almost constantly hungry. If it's left unfed for too long it tends to be temperamental (doesn't help in investigations) and, for some reason, makes attempts to eat the shoes of the spellcaster."
85,A Kua-toa child. Fiercely loyal to the caster and views them as a divine figure. They can manifest minor clerical powers through their devotion alone.
86,"A boggle that started off as the character's childhood imaginary friend, then slowly grew in power. The boggle can become very resentful if the character seems to be making friends with someone new."
87,"A sentient clam that happily babbles in an unknown language, assumedly Clam. It sings amazingly despite its incomprehensible language, and has advantage on all performance checks involving singing. A patient spellcaster may be able to pick up the language if they are persistent."
88,"A will-o'-wisp that has taken an interest in the spellcaster and follows them of its own free will. It is mischevious and a tad cruel by nature, and occasionally floats off for hours at a time before returning. It often zaps party members at inoppurtune times, and lingers after fights to consume the souls of the fallen. That aside, it is still supportive of the caster and readily provides backup as a distraction during truly dire combat. It occasionally acts as a guide when the spellcaster is lost, though it will sometimes play tricks on the caster in the same way. When the spellcaster is casting a spell, the will-o'-wisp circles the caster at rapid speeds, and will add an additional 2d8 of lightning damage to it if the spell also does lighting damage."
89,"A sentient transparent orb filled with smoke, that also doubles as a spellcasting focus for the caster. It communicates through movement of the smoke, with peaceful drifting indicating contentment and violent swirling indicating agitation. After gaining trust in the spellcaster over a long period of time, the spellcaster will begin to see pictures in the smoke that only they can see, which hint at the history of the orb."
90,"An oddly colored caterpillar the size of a human arm. It enjoys sunbathing on the caster's head and eating the caster's clothing. The caterpillar will eventually enter an unnaturally hard cocoon in which it will undergo metamorphosis into an enormous butterfly. The butterfly will continue to follow the spellcaster if they propery cared for it before its metamorphosis, and can cast Giant Insects without concentration as a spell-like ability once per day."
91,"A small, seemingly conscious cloud of blueish smoke. Can distract and hinder enemies by hovering by their mouth and nostrils, but otherwise doesn't do much other than following it's master."
92,A chameleon that can't quite manage to match whatever color it is hiding against but can occasionally display distant images or things it has seen.
93,A rock. It doesn't eat much but always seems to be some place different when viewers look away and then back.
94,A disembodied hand shaped in a fist with eyes tattooed on forefinger and a mustache on the thumb. It speaks in a squeaky voice similar to its master. 'S'all right?'
95,"Flying fox-voracious fruit eaters, it lets your gather 2x as much food foraging. Appears to onlookers as a 5ft tall bat and can be used for intimidation."
96,"A snooty noble who was polymorphed into a schnauzer. He will often complain about the conditions that he and his master must endure, but can be quite charismatic."
97,A tiny Da Vinci style helicopter construct that seeks out great inventors and artists.
98,"A potoo bird that can be completely disguised if it's standing still on a tree, with a branch at least 1 feet wide."
99,"A turtlehorse is a creature that is, obviously, a cross between a turtle and a horse. Its the size of your every day turtle with a main of brown hair, a long snout and hooves. It only has one power. If you cut off one of its legs a horse sized version of the familiar appears to be your steed. But if you cut off all 4 legs the turtlehorse dies."
100,A living wristwatch/amulet/medallion that can sprout legs and waddle off.

d100,Entry

1,"Use of your voice for a day. Your voice (which is from someone true and pure of heart) is used to chant a ritual with thousands of other borrowed voices to do something very evil. The evil ritual tainted your voice and now lawful beings have taken notice of the rituals completion and don’t really care for the defence that you weren’t there, your voice was the one chanting."
2,You must sacrifice a percentage of money to the demon each time you make/find money.
3,"The demon appears as an attractive figure matching the Player Character's greatest desires, perhaps even the one they are in love with. The demon asks the Player Character to kiss them, and to kiss them like they would someone they love. An offspring is created by the kiss, a half demon half [Player Character Race] which grows rapidly towards adulthood."
4,"The demon requests a piece of the Player Character's soul; not their entire soul, but just a piece of it. Permanently reduces the maximum HP of the Player Character by 20 and they have disadvantage on CHA checks when dealing with Paladins, Clerics, or general members of the Clergy."
5,"You must betray a party member who is not aware of your contract and who is your friend by stealing from them, spreading rumors about them or something else to amuse the devil. It has to be clever."
6,"You must kill the next person who asks you for help, even if it is just a poor man asking for food, instantly."
7,"You must abduct a suitable wife for the devil, who will take her to the underworld (a bit like Hades and Persephone)."
8,From now an any gamble you make is a guaranteed loss for you.
9,"You must vandalize a sacred site, altar or church of any good aligned deity."
10,"You pay with your mortal time, making you age rapidly into an old person, grey hair (and beard) with old skin and muscles within the next day."
11,"Strength and Max HP are lowered by 3 and 5 respectively, roll 1d6: At a 1 or 6 your Charisma is increased by 1 otherwise lowered by 2."
12,"The demon will request that the Player Character give them their first born (or in the case of the Player Character already having children, their next) child for one day during his or her first week of life. The demon will feed the child 3 drops of its own blood. The child grows strong and powerful from this treatment. He or she beomes forever an indentured servant to the demon. The demon has made this pact dozens of times, in doing so the demon has collected an army of powerful beings."
13,"The Character must do a small evil thing each day. It's minor, but it it helps spread misery. Kick a puppy, steal groceries from a senior citizen, trip a blind person."
14,"The Character must perform a moderately evil thing each day. It's still not killing, but it is full of hate and brings pain. Grafitti a house, send letters to soldier's widows that state they are burning in hell, terrorize a household of minor or monster races, break store windows, hand out pamphlets decrying the existence of a particular sub group (religious or otherwise), steal food from the starving, rob an orphanage, etc."
15,"The Character must perform a single truly evil act. These are the truly evil acts. Assault, murder, etc. Things the get life sentences, if not execution or exile."
16,"The character must say something opposite of their nature to a loved one at least once per day, with the number increasing from day to day depending on how many things the character does against the demon/devil’s desires."
17,"Devil: collect on another contract made several decades ago. The terms of this contract remain unknown. The mortal who signed the first contract is advanced in years and either doesn't remember the contract due to their memory failing, or starts begging that there is still time."
18,One of their eyes. Perhaps the players fight a demon with the single eye in the future?
19,"Abbysal: 66.6% of all blood for the next googol of years or the end of the claimant's life, whichever comes last, must be left at a altar to dark powers. This allows one to as a standard action call a random abyssal ally once daily, who will do tasks for the claimant. The ally may demand additional payment for services rendered, depending on the complexity of the task."
20,"Infernal: 66.6% of all income for the next googol of years or the end of the claimant's life, whichever comes last, must be left at a altar to dark powers. This allows one to as a standard action call a random fiendish ally once daily, who will do tasks for the claimant. The ally may demand additional payment for services rendered, depending on the complexity of the task."
21,"Anyone who signs the contract will always be slightly outshone by their companions in any legends told. Saved a kingdom? The bard will mention everyone, including you, but your stanza will be just that much less remarkable than the others. This only applies to secondhand accounts: anyone who witnesses your deeds will see them as they truly are. Complication: The fiend itself is a Glory Leech, and its sustenance is the renown of those it gives contracts to. After you've done enough deeds, and the Glory Leech has nourished itself on your relinquished fame, it has the strength to take your place...either actually possessing you, or manifesting as the ideal version of you who everyone unrelated sees as having really done all your great deeds."
22,"The fiend requires as its price that you have a recurring cold. It doesn't hamper you mechanically (or perhaps gives only a small disadvantage to pure CON checks, of which there are few), but you are Always. Sick. Your companions notice it, NPCs notice it; it feels like you have Fantasy Allergies and no restorative magic can remove it. Complication: The fiend had a powerful curse bestowed upon itself, and has found a way to gradually rerout and 'metabolize' that curse through you. After 1/5/10/50 years of dealing with this cold, one day you wake up to find that it is gone once and for all. However, the fiend is now no longer restrained by its curse. It shows up to thank you for your assistance...and perhaps, for good or ill, it does something more."
23,"The fiend wants your nickname. If you have multiple nicknames, it will demand one that has emotional or personal significance, though not necessarily your most cherished one. Complication: true names have power, but nicknames have their own, weaker power. The fiend is able to summon you to its infernal realm every so often, as per some backwards summoning spell. You appear as a ghostly form and can't be permanently injured, though you may have to fight or undergo tasks. The fiend can't torture you or hurt you willingly, but it can command you to perform duties as a summoned creature would."
24,"The fiend wants one fingernail from your non-dominant hand. It pulls them out with a pair of shiny, black pliers. The fingernail never grows back. Complication: that's a really damn creepy thing to ask for. Why in the Nine Hells did they want a fingernail? What are they doing with it? Ugh. That's gonna bother you."
25,"The fiend is drawn to the light that you spread -- literally. If you are a spellcaster or other magic user, all of your magical effects get noticeably dimmer , though no harder to perceive i.e. this doesn't change them to Subtle Spell. If you cast a spell that produces light as an intended effect (the Light cantrip, Daylight, Moonbeam, Sunburst, etc., though up to DM discretion), either the radius of light is lowered, or one damage die from the spell's damage is demoted/removed entirely. If you're a non-caster, your torches sputter and go out much faster than others' do, and any magic items you use that are designed to cast light are reduced in radius."
26,"The fiend picks up a small rock off the ground and enchants it with a spell you cannot discern (on a successful Arcana check or casting of detect magic, you realize it's from the Divination school). The fiend then demands that you always keep this rock on your person. You are magically bound to this: if the rock is left behind or discarded, it returns to your pack whenever you aren't paying attention. The rock is always there and tends to get in the way, but imposes no mechanical penalties. Complication: The rock is a powerful scrying stone, and the fiend is able to watch you at any time, for as long as it wishes. Not only does the fiend enjoy spying on the Material Plane, but it has also been known to rent out the use of this rock to other fiends. Anyone who uses the rock cannot directly harm you or your companions...though nothing stops them from screwing with you in potentially terrible ways."
27,The souls of your victims.
28,"A single drop of the PC’s blood. PC’s family was blessed by [Good being] generations ago for reasons. The [Evil being] than used their blood (couldn’t been taken, only given) in a ritual to weaken/torture/kill [Good being] and steal the item/person/prize/location they were guarding."
29,"Demon Only: The demon states that the player's fee is waived, as the demon insert excuse here [likes them/is feeling generous/was or will be paid for doing the task/etc.]. As a token of the contract, the player must place a small scrap of moss in an obscure window frame, preferably in a ruin. The demon will attempt to deceive the player if asked about it, saying it's a form of ritual in it's 'layer' (means nothing in the abyss) to ensure a contract is completed. Complication: the scrap of moss is a fledgeling demon [if D&D, Alkilith from Mordenkainen's Tome of Foes], and a portal to the Abyss. It can be recognized as fiendish by abilities or spells, and very few hit points. If left unchecked for d10 years, the moss will overgrow the window and open a gate to the Abyss."
30,"Act as an embassy to their side for XYZ 'missions'/years. Example errand: Bring a box of junk to the hermit in an abandoned swamp cave as a personal present. The hermit was cursed centuries ago, locked away, stripped of all their power by a local shaman to wither and die. The hermit was a Hag Mother whose curse can only be broken by receiving an honest gift from a mortal (which would never happen under normal conditions due to her blood thrist and malice), which through proper coaching from the [Evil being], you’ve just broken."
31,"Wants your shadow. Without a shadow, being the negative space made by your presence in light, you are often forgotten about. Left out of stories, memories, often surprise people you are in the middle of conversations with when you speak even if you haven't moved ('OMG Gorgan, I didn't see you there, dont sneak up on me like that'). Since you don't seem to block light, you are often colder than normal and animals often don't like to be in your presence."
32,"The PC will have to surrender the soul of their most beloved one. Wife, to child, to best friend. The Demon demands it for the contract to be fully bound. If the contract is broken, the soul is sent to the deepest depths of hell. But if the contract is completed to satisfaction, the soul is returned, after being exposed to hell for maybe a day to a week."
33,"A long term (read: perpetual) loan agreement. On the 6th day of the month, you must deposit a coinpurse with 66 gold pieces in it into a baroque ritual box. When closed, the box consumes the coins. Woe betide you should you come short on your payment. Mammon's approach to debt restructuring is more cruel than any mortal moneylender."
34,Your most precious memory and the memories required to make sense of it. Sets up for a great revealed twist in the PC's own backstory.
35,"Your true name. The demon takes possession of your name, and can use it as a source of power over you. Whenever someone calls you by your true name you take 1d4 psychic damage."
36,A small metal rod from the material plane. This is to serve as material component for Plane Shift to his other followers.
37,"The demon just wants a friend. No tricks, no gimmicks, they've just become so lonely that they're willing to open up the possibility of having a mortal friend. They'll check in with the player from time to time, ask how they're doing, maybe even offer help or ask a favor of their own. (this one's devious, because the player will constantly think and be waiting for an ulterior motive, and questioning somebody who actually just wants friendship)."
38,"Just one eye. Turns out the eyes are the window to the soul, but the fiend only needs it cranked open halfway to see in. Giving up your eye tells the fiend your alignment, which in turn makes it easy for them to then exploit that knowledge to slowly bend you to their own alignment, so that when you die your soul goes to Hell/The Abyss and they can claim it as their own."
39,"Place a fist sized rock on a cobblestone bridge at exactly 9am tomorrow. Unknown to the player, a very important noble has fallen deathly ill and the cure will pass over the bridge on its way to the castle. The rock causes just enough of a delay that the noble dies, leaving their heir, a devote of said Demon/Devil in power."
40,"A wager: If the player dies in the next (X) days, the demon gets his or her soul. If the player manages to survive, the demon gets nothing. The demon cannot directly harm the player, but will do everything else within its power to see that the player meets an untimely end."
41,Your thirdborn son. Whatever you were getting in the contract wasn't worth a first or second born child.
42,"You must defile three holy sites of three different deities, the closer to Lawful Good the better. Preferably done by a less experienced demon/devil that uses brute force to gain influence instead of subjugation and trickery."
43,"The devil wants you to set him up in business. S/he will grant your boon in return for: a nice townhouse, endowed with sufficient capital that the maintenance and servants are paid in perpetuity; a shop in the poshest market square; the services for five years of a master in that trade (to teach it to the devil); an endowment for food, drink, etc., all top of the line; the tools, materials and capital sufficient for the trade; your enthusiastic marketing of his/her business; etc. This is a straight-up deal; the devil is sick of the politics of hell and just wants to live a mortal lifetime as a trader in [your pick, something fairly mundane, like tailor or mercer]. It's gonna cost you way more gold than you might originally think, but you'll get that boon fair and square. Now, the devil doesn't intend to deal in souls, but business is business, and if something comes up that can be done subtly..."
44,The head of a well-known and beloved holy leader/monk whose God opposes the demon/devil.
45,"For you to carry a mysterious egg and protect it. Unknown to the players, the egg comes closer to hatching every time something dies within 30ft of it and players close to it gradually gain a small amount fire damage on their attacks. Egg can hatch into a physical form for the demon or a monster of your choice (friendly or not)."
46,"Wants to watch you sleep and consume your dreams. Promises it will only take one night. But the next morning, the character finds that she remembers all her dreams... But her goals and motivations in life (which are another kind of 'dreams')? Those are gone. Forever. Character can develop other dreams (goals, motivations) but the ones that were taken can never be pursued again. Because the character simply doesn't care about them anymore. This can be very broad. For example, if the character was especially greedy about loot and gold... well, that's not the case anymore. Or limited to character specific quests only. The character doesn't care about the mystery of who killed her parents, for example."
47,"The carcasses of 49 cats, to be delivered in a single bulk payment."
48,"Your Name: Your name is erased from your memory, and that of any who know you, and any written work, such as non-demonic contracts."
49,Your lineage.
50,"Love - The fiend has either grown sentimental/nostalgic over a past life where he could love, or he simply wants to know what all the fuss is about. While you retain control, he experiences life through your heart and soul for one week. You can feel his presence and hear his whisper as he urges you to spend time with your loved ones, possibly threatening them if you don't do as he says."
51,"Faith - The fiend tells you a secret truth that shakes your faith in a deity or ideal that you hold most valuable. You are cursed with never being able to speak it, or perhaps simply nobody believes you, but you know it to be true."
52,"Power - The fiend believes in equal exchange. If your contract is for political power, he takes your physical/magical power, and vice versa. The magnitude of the deal must remain equal on each side. If you can give him someone else's power, that's fine too, as the two signatories still ended up with a balanced deal."
53,"Gore - The fiend asks you to spill lots of blood for him. Not now, but over time. He just likes blood and guts, and now you're starting to like it too. Everything you kill, you have an urge to mutilate, and every so often, you see the face of the fiend smiling up at you from a pool of blood."
54,"The devil challenges the claimant to a test of skill and talent. PC has 6 days to prepare for this contest in whatever way they see fit. On the day of the contest, they must beat an appropriate DC [50?] - if they succeed, they win, free and clear, a valuable prize thematically suited to skill tested- but if not, the devil gets the PC's soul. PC's party has a number of days/weeks/months to retrieve the claimant's soul from the thematically appropriate hell before it is lost forever."
55,"For every favor you ask for from the demon, the demon takes 5% of your remaining life span. This doesn't stack, it just continues to take 5% every time. If you have 70 years left, it takes 3.5 for the favor. If you used another favor immediately after that, it takes away 5% of the 66.5 years left remaining."
56,The Demon/devil asks for the left shoe of every creature or person you kill. This is just for spite.
57,The devil stores a soul in the character for safekeeping. This soul may occasionally force the player to commit evil acts. Later you can have a powerful warlock hunt the character intending to retrieve the soul.
58,The character gets the halfling lucky trait but for a roll of 20 instead of 1. The fiend is siphoning their luck for unknown reasons.
59,"If the character ever verbally expresses love for another person, that person will be filled with hatred towards the character."
60,A cult that worships the devil has been infiltrated by a holy paladin. The devil requests they find and kill this paladin before the devil is banished. (It is also to be assumed that this devil will provide reasonable assistance.)
61,"The devil brands the player with their symbol. That character is now sensitive to sunlight and vulnerable to radiant damage, any healing they receive from a good-aligned divine power is halved, good clerics might instinctively think the character is evil, etc."
62,The character must mark every living creature they kill with the symbol of the devil they entered the contract with. After an hour the bodies are summoned to the devil who does what it pleases with the corpses.
63,"A cult worships the devil whose contract the character signs, and the devil asks the character to eradicate this cult. It turns out the cult was rather annoying and the devil just didn't want to be summoned so often."
64,The fiend needs four waterskins of blood from four specific creatures. The blood will be used to create a powerful 'pet' for the fiend which may or may not attack the character later on.
65,"The fiend asks that you irreparably break the trust of someone who is dear to you. Who’s trust you betray is up to you, but the fiend can tell by reading your soul whether the bond was strong or if the betrayal was true. The trust must be shattered irreversibly; if even a small amount of faith remains between you and your dear one, the fiend will not consider the condition met."
66,"The fiend insists on a request that has two parts. Firstly, you must capture the soul of someone you truly love and bring it to the fiend. The specific person or method of capture does not matter, just that they are important to you. Secondly, you must design a torment for the fiend that you believe would be the most excruciating for that particular person. The fiend expects you to use your knowledge of the person to assist you in your torture-crafting, and if it determines that you did not put your best effot into personalizing their eternal suffering, you fail the condition. If the fiend approves your torment, it sees to it that it is administered to the person’s soul for all eternity, leaving you and them mired in the knowledge that you are responsible for their everlasting pain."
67,"The fiend requests the soul of an innocent child from an enlightened race, personally slain by a sworn defender of the innocent. How the situation arose or how the soul is delivered do not matter; the fiend only cares that the circumstances set forth in its condition are met. The fiend may increase what it offers in exchange if you personally and purposefully create the circumstances that cause the slaying, with its pleasure deepening the more dramatic the conditions of the death."
68,"Your skill. The infernal takes one of your skill proficiencies (DMs choice). Not only does your skill drop to +0, but you are (meta-game) literally unable to ever pass that kind of skill check ever again. Any magical bonuses, additional modifiers, later level placements all become null."
69,A part of your personal essence. Infernal takes from you a stat points.
70,"Your memories. Infernal takes from you all or specific memories from the PC. They choose memories specific to your character like “every memory of a loved one” so they are a stranger to you, where something specific is located like the magical mcguffin on their quest, a learned action such as a class power or magical spell (never able to be learned again), or for fun and games, basic knowledge like horses exists or that you cant breath underwater. MORE MALICIOUS VARIANT: The Infernal doesn’t care what memory they take, the whole contract was so that when they scan your memory for “which memory they want”, they actually get to see hidden information you wouldn’t have volunteered."
71,A year of service.
72,Your word of honor... Literally. You can no longer say the word honor.
73,"I demand your sword and shield, at a time of my choosing. This debt will be paid 3 times. So, mid fight, our plucky hero swings their mighty sword only to see it vanish before their eyes. As a member of a party, the protection of his allies is his shield and he watches them vanish too, off to fight some ancient foe of the Demon while he stands here unarmed against what was once an easy encounter..."
74,Perform a ritual (pour the blood of X) into the mouth of an aasimar (celestial souls are tasty).
75,To learn the true name of another planar being.
76,"A child's innocence. You needn't give it to the demon, but you must take it away."
77,"The demon wants the ability to 'sleep'. This demon lost its own ability to sleep in a different deal with another group of adventurers. You no longer need to sleep, but never truly feel 'rested'. Should you ever have the need to go unconscious, you are semi-aware, just unable to move."
78,"The emotion in your voice. From now on, you speak in a monotone voice no matter your feelings."
79,"You must mildly inconvenience a specific person before a specific time, enough to delay them no less than 5 minutes. The demon may or may not inform you the target has a very important destiny they are unaware of, but hinges on them arriving at their destination before a specific time."
80,"You must enter a church and convince a specific clergyman to step outside the walls of the church, where the demon awaits."
81,There's an upcoming election and you must vote for or endorse the candidate of the demon's choosing.
82,The dying scream of a God. Good luck figuring out which one to kill … and then figuring out how to kill a god.
83,"You must gain the trust of an innocent, and then brutally break it. The demon doesn’t particularly need anything, he just wants to cause havoc."
84,"The fiend wants to see the material plane. In exchange for its favor, it gets to hitch a ride behind your eyes for a time. While it is there, you will trip any spell, ability, or creature that detects the presence of evil and/or fiends. You cannot enter holy sites whose alignment is not adjacent to that of the fiend. Further, it may be manipulating your dreams for its own purposes."
85,An arm and a leg. They don't care whose.
86,"You must aid a devil by infiltrating a church, temple or holy place with his minions. This will utterly and permanently corrupt the very foundation of an otherwise righteous institution."
87,"The fiend asks you to plant a black, spiny seed the size of a human thumb in the middle of a lush, green, verdant forest. Given d4 days to sprout, it will slowly begin to devour the local ecosystem as it grows into a massive knotted tangle of black, greasy vines with finger-length thorns. In d6 years, an area of roughly 3 square miles is converted into an Abyss-like landscape. All wildlife there becomes tainted and demonic, and demons frequently appear there."
88,"A weapon granted to you by the demon hungers for life; if you don't use it to end a life twice per six days, the weapon turns on you and begins feasting on your flesh, dealing d10 damage and forcing a -3 penalty to STR and DEX on you until you kill something. A demon offering such a deal will almost always leave that part out."
89,"The demon grants you a magical pistol, and a satchel of seven magical bullets; the gun will only fire the seven bullets granted by the demon. The first six will instantly strike wherever the shooter aims, without fail; the first six ranged attacks made with this gun cannot miss, the gun will not jam, and the attack will always be a critical hit, as long as the magic bullets are used. The seventh shot, regardless of whether or not you use the demon's bullets, will be controlled by the demon and will always strike where it wants, and will always be a critical hit."
90,"The devil requires that you kidnap a famous bard so that he may use the bard as his 'ringer' in a musical battle against a demon. The bard is also being pursued by the demon's people, and has warded himself against any direct fiendish interference."
91,Some of your experience. You loose your most recent level.
92,"A share in your success. Anytime you pick up any valuables (coins, gems, magical artifacts ect.) there is a 50% chance it goes to the demon."
93,"An arm and a leg. Luckily, they are generous enough to provide some old spares they don't need. Replace one of your arms and legs with that of a random humanoid."
94,To wear the face of your one true love.
95,"The knowledge of your favorite food. Nevermore will you taste it, nor remember the taste. Only the loss and the uncertainty remains: was this the food? Was this the way your mother made it?"
96,"Asks to possess you for one day of your life. Given the choice of any day of your life, chooses the day you were born and changes your whole life."
97,"Make the demon something. Carve it from stone, or bone, or wood. Spend precious hours, stolen minutes, your sweat, your tears on the object. Make something more beautiful than you ever believed that your hands could craft. Burn it."
98,Interrupt a wedding when the officiant asks if anyone has any objections. Use your imagination.
99,Your brother/ sister / best friend's favorite pet. Kill it. I don't want the body. I just want to know that it is dead by your hand.
100,"Sit by the bedside of a dying man or woman, and tell them a bad joke. Make sure it's the last thing they ever hear."

d100,Entry

1,A Pod of Dolphins Swims alongside your vessel for 1d4 hours
2,An intoxicated Crewmember falls overboard
3,A Pod of Plesiosaurs feed off the corpse of a sperm whale in the distance
4,"A Barrel floats past the ship, it contains a fine wine"
5,"The ship passes by a Sea Stack where a sailor, crazed through starvation, begs to be taken aboard"
6,A crew member saw a ghost ship during the night. The captain being superstitious changes course to go around the sighting. The takes journey is now 1d4 days longer.
7,"A boulder is seen floating past the ship. Upon inspection the boulder is indeed made of stone, but floats inexplicably."
8,"A whale emerges from the depths and a nearby ship attempts to attack it, the captain of said ship is constantly rambling about revenge and has a peg-leg. If the characters do not intervene the ship is destroyed and the whale goes back under."
9,"A coffin floats past, covered in barnacles. If the players choose to haul it onto the ship they will find the word “CASSIUS” is engraved above the lock. Inside rests a long-forgotten vampire who will attack the crew one-by-one at night if aboard the ship."
10,"A ball on a chain floats past. However the ball has been covered in extremely hard barnacles making it sharp, allowing it to be used as a spiked flail."
11,You catch a member of the crew writing eldritch sigils on the deck in chalk.
12,"Forty-odd bodies immediately float to the surface, they seem fresh…"
13,A member of the crew has disappeared! The last person to see him says he took a rowboat in the middle of the night and abandoned ship…
14,"The ship passes through a school of pink, octopoid-like creatures. They are harmless, but exude a very slippery oil."
15,"The carcass of a dragon turtle, bloated with decomposition gases, floats on the surface. The sickening stench is notable a half-mile away."
16,"A small longboat with sails furled, crewed by around ten, scuds by in the night. They do not hail or acknowledge the PC’s boat in any way."
17,A warm rain falls – the water is pinkish in color but otherwise normal.
18,"A sea elf surfaces and hails the ship with a series of broad hand motions, obviously some type of code. No reply seems to make sense them and they leave after a minute."
19,"A lump of Grey goop floats by. If collected, it proves to be the precious ambergris."
20,"During the night, ball lightning dances among the sails, creating a frightening show. It does no damage."
21,"At night, a fog covers the area, blocking the ability to see the stars, but the crew spots three glowing green orbs floating off the port bow. The players can try to use the orbs as a point of reference to navigate, investigate the orbs, or wait till morning."
22,Your ship is immersed in giant tentacles and is unable to move. A giant kraken head emerges and tells you that it’s lonely and just wants to talk.
23,"The first mate of the ship you’re on finds excess cargo from their last trip, and shares the contents with the group. (Spices, alcohol, etc.)"
24,The travelers meet a traveling brothel ship titled “The Lusty Crustacean”.
25,"Two crew members are playing chess on the top deck. The ship shifts, causing one of the king pieces to slide off the side of the ship."
26,"A large sea beast follows the ship for 1d4 days. It does not appear threatening, and dives to the depths if attacked."
27,"A storm hits in the night, and one of the crew claims to hear it speaking/singing to them."
28,"You find a small, unmapped island. If the crew disembarks to investigate, it is revealed that the island is actually debris collected on the shell of an enormous turtle."
29,"The captain makes a detour to a small, rocky island, shrouded in fog. He goes to the island for 1d4 days before returning with no explanation. None of the crew seem to be bothered by this."
30,"The ghostly residents of a long sunken city walk above the waves where the city streets and buildings once were. As your ship approaches, they all stop and watch you."
31,"As you approach a large island, all of the water pulls from its shore to reveal a sunken ship surrounded gold and artifacts that have spilled from its belly. But the water that has been pulled from shore is now a tsunami, and you have a time limit to do what you will."
32,"A massive spire of stone erupts from the ocean. There appears to be someone at the top, looking down upon your vessel."
33,"While inside of a bay a squall hits and temporarily your boat sits on dry land. Eventually, the waters return and the boat sails onward."
34,"A ship manned by terrifying beasts passes by. Your sailors are terrified, but the monsters keep their distance. They pass swiftly, as if on a mission."
35,"As noon approaches in the vast expanse of ocean, you see a ship that looks exactly like yours approaching. As the ship passes by, you see yourselves on the other ship, watching you with the same confused expressions that you have yourselves."
36,"In the dead of night, a panicked bell toll rings. A massive beast is striding in the ocean. It appears the ocean depth only reaches up to its hip."
37,"You find a rusted anchor covered in runes, when you use the anchor the entire ship sinks nearly instantly to the bottom of the sea. The occupants of the ship are now under the effect of the breathe underwater spell."
38,"An iceberg floats by, when sunlight shines through it you see the ship frozen inside."
39,"You can’t believe your eyes, a gold obelisk just sitting in the water surrounded by a jagged sharp reef."
40,"During the journey, an occasional bump is noticed against the ship’s hull. But as the days go by, the bump becomes a thump, then a bang, and suddenly a crash that rocks the ship."
41,"An old woman appears on deck. She says a toll must be paid to pass beyond this point, and seems to have the power to enforce it. But she doesn’t want money. She wants something from each of you that you can’t bear living without."
42,"A beautiful mermaid is spotted approaching your ship by a number of crew. Shortly after they spot her, they suddenly sink into madness, ravenously gnawing on their fingers and rambling in an unknown language. All the while, she is getting closer."
43,"A small bird begins circling your ship, then two, then a thousand, then an innumerable flock."
44,"As you walk the deck, you notice a board is missing. A few days later, you notice another. Then more parts begin to go missing, including boards from the hull."
45,"A small trickle of water is seen coming into the ship. It seems like it’s not an issue, but when someone goes to plug it, the hole opens up and devours them."
46,You walk across the deck as the ship’s nose lifts up. The ship has left water and is now floating above the ocean and directly into the sky.
47,"A fire erupts from the captain’s quarters, he runs out burning and screaming for everyone to run before collapsing on the deck."
48,"As the first lantern is lit during sundown, a constant stream of fish begin to jump out of the water and onto the deck, followed by a deep rumbling sound from below the ship."
49,"An empty rowboat is sighted. When the ship gets close to it, it vanishes in a wet mist."
50,You pass by a hermit living on a self sufficient fishing platform. They chuck rotten fish at your ship if you get too close.
51,"The ship is followed for several hours by fins extruding from the water. The water appears dark grey, and nothing beneath the surface can be seen. If anyone goes swimming in the water, they can’t see more than a foot in front of them. After several hours, the fins water gradually turns back to normal color and the fins dip beneath, disappearing."
52,You find a man adrift at sea in a bloodied life boat. He claims to be the survivor of a shipwreck.
53,A Naga is found floating on a piece of driftwood. She begs to come aboard and appears to have been starving.
54,A crew member that was dumping waste off the side of the boat yells for help. You go the deck to see the crew member being beaten by a humanoid fish creature. The creature jumps back into the sea and swims away when it sees you.
55,You see a dolphin happily follow the ship. You see that dolphin gets eaten by a shark.
56,A hooded figure appears at night and approaches 1 character and says “a danger beyond your mortal understanding is lurking within these waters” if a character goes looking for the figure they will be unable to find it.
57,"You see a crew-member slip on the deck. Upon closer inspection, the spot is covered with ice. The water is still liquid, but the ship is slowly freezing."
58,"A huge storm approaches, making it difficult to see. The sound of rushing water alerts you to a whirlpool forming ahead, threatening to pull the ship in or damage it if you don’t think fast!"
59,A flock of birds appears to be circling bits of driftwood. Upon closer inspection there is blood in the water and the birds are glowing faintly red. There might be something valuable still floating around if you’re willing to risk it…
60,A crew member or crew members disappear for 1d4 hours and come back seemingly out of thin air if investigated its found to be a stow away Doppelgagger who merely wanted passage to your destination you must decide now what to do the. the crew member is still alive just hidden somewhere that only the Doppelgagger knows.
61,You casually walk below deck when you notice water coming up between two of the floor boards.
62,"One night, the sea is calm and quiet as a small life boat approaches the ship head on. Your ship steers to avoid destroying it. As you pass it you see a wirey old man with white hair and mustache rowing hypnotically. He’s facing backward with wide eyes, staring off into the distance, and with a shiver in his voice he repeats “the black…. the black”."
63,"Enormous bubbles surface frequently throughout the day, they smell horrible when they pop and a faint green/yellow gas can be briefly seen. “Whale farts.” the captain explains, covering his nose and mouth with his handkerchief. Fortitude/Constitution save or be sickened for 1d4 days."
64,"A man is spotted on top of a volcanic rock formation, it is clear he has no food or shelter save his clothing and a spare bit of half a row boat. He try’s to get there attention by lighting a fire, but will only board the ship if the players say they are going further south."
65,The captain gets too drunk and in the process he steers the ship gets off course.
66,"A large object bumps against the hull of the ship. After hauling it aboard, the crew discovers it is a huge glass bottle the size of a person, with an equally large scroll inside. On it is a beautiful poem written in Giant."
67,The navigator is found to be a fraud- he has no idea where the ship is or where it is going. Neither does anyone else on the ship.
68,"The ship passes over a coral reef inhabited by aquatic fairies- the fairies play pranks on and try to mislead the crew, accidentally causing one crewmember to fall off the mast to his death."
69,The captain calls everyone aboard and announces that someone or something has been stealing food- there is only 1d4 days worth of rations left.
70,"A giant is seen walking through an ocean that only reaches his belly, in the distance."
71,A sailor spots a glimmer under the water—further investigation reveals it is the very top of a huge underwater statue made of gold.
72,"The ship cook has concocted the foulest, sickest looking meal, even by his standards. It’s also his birthday, and no one wants his feelings to get hurt."
73,"Huge manta rays fly over the ship. Each of the manta rays could feed the crew for days, and some are even rumoured to have precious pearls within. However, if the party does manage to get one, they find the skeleton of a human child within."
74,"Everything. I mean EVERYTHING. Smells like fish. Horrible, stinky, rotting fish. Clothes, shoes, your own body, and even food that doesn’t contain fish. Oddly enough, fish smells like strawberries."
75,"The crew’s amusements of dares have prompted one member to drink the ocean’s water. To his amazement, it is not salty, but sweet."
76,"Shadows appear under the water that must be fish, but look like large birds…"
77,Shipworms have weakened the hull. Carpenters must spend a day repairing the damage.
78,Fruit you brought to combat scurvy has slowly been going missing. An investigation reveals a few crew members secretly attempting to brew alcohol.
79,Celebrations on deck for a cabin boy’s first catch at sea go sour when a drunken deckhand confronts the boy to tell him nasty facts about his heritage.
80,"The ship comes across a fairly large merchant vessel named “The Seaside Exstravaganza”. The merchant who runs the ship, a stern but fair old woman named Gellie, deals in merchandise from faraway countries. She quickly becomes fond of one of the party and offers them a spot among her crew."
81,The ship approaches a collection of rocky outcroppings surrounded by abnormally quick-moving water. A ship-sized geyser in the center of the outcroppings acts as a portal to the Elemental Plane of Water during the day.
82,"The ship comes across a fairly large merchant vessel named “The Seaside Exstravaganza”. The merchant who runs the ship, a stern but fair old woman named Gellie, deals in merchandise from faraway countries. She quickly becomes fond of one of the party and offers them a spot among her crew."
83,"A castaway named Sinan is found on board. He swears up and down he can read the stars, seas, and winds just by shooting a crossbow into the air."
84,"You pass by an island, across the beaches you can see an entire pirate crew crucified and bleeding by the neck."
85,"You pass a ship in the water, a crowd of satisfied soldiers celebrating a victory, unaware of the bulky headless pirate climbing up the side of the ship."
86,"A small rowboat floats next to you, a husband begrudgingly asks for directions as his wife cajoles him to have a better attitude."
87,"A humanoid manta-man surfaces, his strength is immense and his intentions are unknown."
88,"You observe a rather small island in the distance, being no bigger than the size of a small courtyard. Upon closer inspection, you notice that there is table in the center of the island, surrounded by 10 or so chairs. The table is set for what seems to be a grand feast, displaying all sorts of exotic food and drink, completely fresh. However, there is no mention of this island on any map, and you find no indication that anyone else has been there recently."
89,"The fluke of a large sea monster is seen in the distance, seemingly headed towards the ship, only for the maw of a much large monster envelop it from below, breaking the surface and quickly sinking back down."
90,"Off in the distance, a sunburned, unclean, lone figure on a lifeboat shoots off a flare, and desperately cries for help. The figure is a pirate who escaped from an encounter with the authorities by abandoning their crew. Upon landing, if he/she is turned in to the proper authorities, the party may claim their bounty, or, if kept free, the pirate may come in handy as a contact, as the pirate knows of hidden ports all across the sea."
91,"Off in the distance, a sunburned, unclean, lone figure on a lifeboat shoots off a flare, and desperately cries for help. The figure is the final survivor of a terrible shipwreck. This person is a simple fisherman. Should the party take the survivor aboard, they will refuse to go below deck, regardless of the circumstances. If asked, all they will say is “My friends were below deck.”"
92,"Off in the distance, a sunburned, unclean, lone figure on a lifeboat shoots off a flare, and desperately cries for help. The figure is an arrogant cleric, surviving off of magically created food and water. This person is doing fairly well, all things considered. If rescued and delivered to their temple, this cleric will give the party a small favor, but will consider the party a small part in the cleric’s survival."
93,"Off in the distance, a sunburned, unclean, lone figure on a lifeboat shoots off a flare, and desperately cries for help. The figure is a doppleganger, feigning being stranded at Sea, after destroying a ship and eating her crew. If allowed on board, the doppleganger will continue their antics, attempting to kill the crew before they reach shore."
94,A fishing net brings aboard a treasure chest that turns out to be a mimic.
95,A giant squid is seen off the port side of the ship.
96,A group of rats get into the food!
97,Something huge and solid scrapes against the bottom of the ship.
98,Hundreds of manta rays are migrating under the ship.
99,"Below the water, someone on the ship notices an enourmous sunken city."
100,"An orc scout ship is seen in the distance, traveling fast towards the ship."

d100,Entry

1,Shifting Calamari: The tentacles of a displacer beast sliced and fried in a light batter. Aim your fork carefully.
2,Fajita Nocturna: Bat meat pan-seared with onions and eaten out of a dried and floured cloaker wing. Remember to remove the claws.
3,"Up-and-Down Stew: Traditionally made with blink dog and hellhound meat in broth, any mixture of Fey and Fiendish meat will achieve the dish’s signature roiling swirls."
4,Steamed Umber Hulk: The arms and legs of an umber hulk steamed and served with veggies. May cause acute memory loss if undercooked.
5,"Underdark Paella: Cooked giant spider, umber hulk, and roper come together with fresh vegetables and sautéed shrieker to make a one-of-a-kind dish."
6,"King of the Sea’s Sashimi: A complex mix of herbs, spices, and sauce neutralizes the mind control toxin in the thinly sliced aboleth meat that makes up this dish."
7,"Gorgon Roast: The naturally hollow body of a freshly slain gorgon can be placed over a flame and used as a cooking vessel, creating a unique cooking style that brings a unique taste to the food."
8,"Hydra Eggs: With a similar property to their adult counterparts, the yolk of a hydra egg will appear to split 5 times when beaten. If fried, the yolk turns a deep amber color."
9,"Tadpole Cocktail: Mindflayer tadpoles beheaded, cooked with veggies, and served with cocktail sauce. Said to bring back old memories when eaten."
10,"Griffin Gyro Wrap: Griffin steak wrapped in the wings and spit-roasted vertically. Takes 2 days to cook, but serves 20."
11,Dryad Tea: Adding leaves from a dryad can transform the flavor of any tea and impart a bit of the dryad’s mood at the time of picking onto the drinker.
12,Bonfire Dire Boar: The only true way to cook the massive swine. Roast vertically inside a bowl-shaped bonfire until the outside is charred black. Make deep cuts as the juices tend to move inwards during cooking.
13,"Marauder’s Pie: Meat from at least 4 different sources ground up, cooked, mixed with veggies, and covered with a crust. A “true” one contains meat from something sentient."
14,"Mushroom Casserole: Diced myconid, shrieker, and trillimac cooked with bluestalk pasta and a lichen sheet. High in protein, a favorite of low-ranking Drow."
15,"Skewered Manticore: Diced manticore roasted over fire on its own spines. Requires great care and patience, as the spines tend to shatter and ruin the meat. Success will yield a rich, spicy meal."
16,"Escarfléau: A flail snail cooked in the shell with a lot of butter and garlic, highlighting the meat’s natural spiciness. Served still in the shell, feeds four. Bon appetite!"
17,"Draconic Jerky: The tongue of a dragon salted and dried, it’ll keep for 1000 years without losing flavor. Rarely made from a true dragon, usually the tongue of a wyvern or drake."
18,"Bullywug sur la flamme: The leg of a bullywug marinated for a week and grilled over an open fire. Tastes like chicken, smells like death. A favorite of Wood Elves."
19,"Hippocampus Surf’n’Turf: The legs and tail of a hippocampus cooked, lightly salted, and served together. Often prepared for aquatic dignitaries."
20,"Gelatinous Marmalade: Gelatinous cube jelly mixed with sugar water. Doesn’t taste like much, but can make just about anything safe to eat if enough is slathered on it."
21,Woodland Bite: Viper venom watered down with apricot wine and spiced with pepper juice. Often used for drinking contests in more remote forest taverns.
22,"Lightning Gumbo: Diced behir meat, peppers, and onions in broth in a large heavy pot. After cooking for 30 minutes, dump the behir’s lightning gland in and close the lid. After the thud, the meal is ready."
23,"Feast of Gruumsh: Prepared by orcs after a particularly successful hunt. The prize kill is buried with hot coals for 4 days, coated in sauce, and served whole. The hunter who slayed the beast begins the feast by stabbing out one of its eyes."
24,"Lost Honor: When a rust monster eats a dwarf’s weapon, it’s only fair the dwarf return the favor. The claws of a rust monster are tough, tasteless, and unfulfilling, but the dwarves don’t care."
25,"In the Eye of the Beholder: The severed eyestalks of a beholder can impart their effects onto food placed inside for weeks after death. Effects range from refrigeration to disintegration, all useful in their own ways."
26,"Troll Taters: Sliced potatoes oven-roasted in troll fat. After 30 minutes, the potatoes will come out fully cooked but looking raw due to the lingering regeneration effects of the troll fat."
27,"Gnoll Rolls: Pan-fried gnoll meat packed into small biscuits. Good trail food, athough it may scare of wildlife."
28,"Phoenix Roast: While difficult, it is possible to delay the burning and rebirth of a Phoenix. The result is a naturally sweet meat that cooks itself, going from raw to fully cooked in 15 minutes. After 1 hour, the rest of the bird will resurrect as normal."
29,"Sliced Troll Liver: The liver of a troll will continuing regenerating for several days after death. By placing a chunk of liver in an open topped container, roughly 50 slices of fresh liver can be freely acquired before the quality suddenly drops."
30,"Desert Sun Jerky: The tail of a giant scorpion hung on a rack to dry for 3 days. Every 12 hours, it must be flipped over. After 3 days, all of the venom has broken down, salting the meat in the process."
31,"Troll Stirfry: Greased with pig fat and vegetables from fresh gardens. Spices from far off lands burn your tongue. Next time you land a flamming arrow upon a Trolls brow, take a slice of flesh along with its gold."
32,"Beholder Sushi: Beauty may be in the eye of the Beholder, but it’s taste is in the eye stalks! Really speaking, this can be made with most Beholder-kin (such as Spectators) and even enjoyed as sashimi. If you’re too squeamish about eating the ‘tentacles’ of your floating eyeball nightmares raw, simply coat in batter and crispy breadcrumbs for an excellent (if dangerous) kalimari."
33,"Gorgon Roast: While not technically edible itself, the rocky/metallic remains of a Gorgon Bull Male am excellent oven for the smart, open minded adventurer. Lighting a fire beneath an I damaged portion of the bill allows you to turn it into a giant cooling vessel. Always aim to remove the head cleanly for the best results. Once slain, it will become perfectly hollow, but always allow to air for one hour to allow any remnants of its vapours to escape. Then stuff the metal carcass with any other meat you can hunt and enjoy the satisfaction on multiple levels."
34,"Sahaguin Roe: Questionable, as the creature is seen as humanoid by most adventurers, the eggs of these fishlike creatures are much like salmon roe, popping with small explosions of flavour on the tongue."
35,"Dryad Tea: Should one find a friendly Dryad, always ask for some leaves or petals to add an excellent infusion of flavour. These flavours change depending on the Dryads mood when gifting the leaves. For the best results, flirt gently with the nature spirit. NEVER take the leaves or remains of a dead or corrupted Dryad unless planning on brewing laxatives or poisons."
36,"Seared Scorpion: Either boil or sear the meat in the shell, then consume similar to lobster or other shellfish. Heating the shell not only makes it easier to break, but also allows the meat to steam inside the shell, making for a much more tender meal."
37,"Slaughterfish Stew: One of the few fish that tastes better stewed. For the best results, skin the fish pieces and poach in milk instead."
38,"Pan-fried Cockatrice: Tastes so much better than chicken! A favourite of adventurers and food connoisseurs the world over, this versatile meat can be fried, breaded and barbecued for an excellent and filling meal with very little effort... except for killing the creature in the first place. It’s also rumoured to help the joints, especially after petrification."
39,"Phoenix Soup: Not made with actual Phoenix. This is made with a meat of your choice and a Phoenix feather. No fire necessary. Simple break the feather around the middle and drip 3 drops of the golden liquid into the soup you’ve prepared. For added flavour, shave the feather stem into your soup or save them for another night. You should now have a filling, spicy dish that will revitalise you and leave you feeling refreshed and ready to carry on, night or day!"
40,"Manticore Skewers: Slightly dangerous. Never break the spines, and only ever use unbroken spines to begin with. Cut the manticore meat into bite sized pieces before skewering. Roast on an open fire. If the spine explodes, do not eat the meat. If prepared correctly, the spicy, fiery toxin will denature and become something akin to a sauce or marinade as it leaches out of the skewer and into the meat as it cooks. Not for the faint of heart."
41,"Dragon: A notoriously difficult meat. Dragons are normally sentient creatures, but the lesser dragons (including wyverns and wyrms) are considered fair game. Excluding the alchemical ingredients, such as the eyes or heart (which must always be consumed raw if used in magical recipes or rituals), most of a dragon is meat, just like any animal. After the arduous task of scaling (best done with the beasts own claws or teeth), the meat must be cooked on an incredibly hot flame, regardless of species. It is believed to be physically impossible to overlook dragon. Also, the dragons tongue is entirely edible. Often considered an alchemical ingredient, it can be cooked or dried into jerky. It often holds a little innate magic, transferring the knowledge of languages the creature knew in life, if any. An interesting (and tasty) way to learn some new words."
42,"Gryphon sirloin: Often utterly ruined by the casual adventurer, the Gryphon should be butchered by a professional whenever possible. A well prepared, fresh Gryphon sirloin will often fetch as much money as the party will receive from felling the beast in the first place! Surprisingly tender and flavourful, the meat is a strange combination of white and red, fusing the best of both into some of the best meat known to men or elves."
43,"Fried Goblin Ears: Works with a variety of ears, so long as the adventurer isn’t picky or is desperate. Favourite snacks of the bandit tribes of the south, the fried ears of their foes are enjoyed by all ages after the rest of the corpse has been robbed, stripped and butchered... maybe skip this recipe..."
44,"Whole Roast Dire Boar: Wild pigs have nothing on the elusive Dire Boar. Even Dire Wolf packs think twice before attempting to bring down one of these colossal swine! Often as big as a small elephant, the only way to enjoy this is to roast it whole. Make it a celebration. The whole hunting party should help gathering wood and building a large enough spit to cook the kill. Carve away meat once cooked like kebab meat and enjoy with the whole village!"
45,Roast potatoes in Troll Fat: No duck fat for these crispy adventurers favourites! Simply roast in a clay oven after cutting into quarters and covering liberally with Troll fat.
46,"Kraken caviar: Incredibly rare and extremely expensive, only the richest of kings and emperors will ever be able to dine on the freshly laid eggs of a Kraken. These things are released en masse and grow rapidly to try and combat the multitude of oceanic predators that feed on their young. These must be caught and consumed less than 5 days after being laid. After that, if exposed to water, these regular looking roe will rapidly expand to the size of a cannonball and continue to absorb nearby water until it holds a pocket of water roughly 5ft in diameter."
47,"Hydra Eggs: With a similar property to their adult counterparts, the yolk of a hydra egg will appear to split up to 5 times while being beaten. If fried, the yolk turns a deep amber colour."
48,"Owlbear Steak: Very ‘gamey’, but perfect for jerky. Plenty of meat on an Owlbear too."
49,"Roast Behir: The only way to enjoy the multi-legged dragon lookalike. After removing the electric glands and other organs, the meat of a Behir should be either smoked or roasted. Most adventurers miss out on the best flavour of this mountain dwelling creature. Properly cooked, Behir meat should have a taste reminiscent of the air after a lightning storm. Pairs well with cheese, oddly enough."
50,Ants on a Log: Raisins and peanut butter slathered on beholder eyestalks (replaces celery stalks).
51,"Shell Shark Fin Soup: The fin decorating the bowl is just for show, the soup itself is a standard vegetable broth."
52,"Bullywug Leg: said to taste like chicken, if that chicken had been drowned in a swamp."
53,"Flail Escargot: A whole Flail Snail is roasted in the shell, and served with garlic and herbs. Its so large, that it is often ordered as a main course for 4 people."
54,"Mindflayer Calamari: The mindflayers tentacle gives just a bit more out of the ordinary taste to it, which has been discribed as 'out of this world'."
55,Illithid Probes: Mind flayer spawn harvested by the town's local heroes. Their heads are cut off and the bodies lined up like shrimp. It is a good source of vitamins for the brain. 6: Owlbear Meat: A large slab of owlbear meat slathered in gravy made from the meat itself.
56,Shambling Lettuce: Leafy greens harvested from a shambling mound. Just dont let it get away!
57,Strahd Wine: Some stupid adventurer took that wine glass strahd always had after killing him. Turns out it's bottomless. Yay?
58,"Terrasque Ice Cream: Powdered terrasque horn, once shaved off, it can be used for a variety of purposes due to its resistance to temperature change. One of them is ice cream!"
59,Bullete-Fin Soup: An exotic dish made from these dangerous creatures. Served in a buttery soup.
60,"Ilithari: mind layer tentacles sautéed in a sauce made from spiced ilithid cerebrospinal fluid. Warning, may cause hallucinations."
61,Gelatinous Cube Marmalade: The snack that bites back! Be sure to remove any debris of slain adventurers.
62,Poached Basilisk Eye: Eat it but don't look it at. Mostly because gross.
63,Gnoll Roll: A hearty biscuit stuffed with pan-fried gnoll meat. Eating too many may give you feral thoughts.
64,"Animated hors d'oeuvres: All of these finger foods are held together with tiny, toothpick-sized animated swords. They're delicious, but can be deadly in a swarm."
65,Lime Gelatinous Cube Salad - A dish made from the genetically modified and farmed Lime Gelatinous Cube. Consists of a whole Lime Gelatinous Cube stuffed with fruits and topped with whipped cream.
66,"Roc Foie Gras - Made from the fatty liver of an inhumanely force-fed Roc. One serving of Roc Foie Gras could feed an entire village, but it is quite expensive and typically only enjoyed by the upper class."
67,"Quasit Boil - Typically served at large get-togethers, hundreds of Quasits are boiled alive with corn on the cob, potatoes, sausage, and spices. This dished is traditionally served in a family style fashion by dumping in a large pile on a table and dumping additional spices directly on top."
68,"Fondgoo: An insane eccentric aspiring gourmet turned adventurer developed this after a horrific adventure in a ooze laboratory. Combining the jelly of a gelatinous cube with copious amounts of cheese and wine over high heat, you are able to neutralize most of the acidic elements to create an amazing dish. A mild anesthetizing effect tickles and numbs the mouth, preventing speech for a minute after consumption. Some consider this a boon and it is a frequent dish at many upper-class family reunions."
69,"Flesh Fondgoo: Captured by a human from beyond the stars with an unnatural hunger, the chef only had servitude as a survival option. Becoming comforter and preparer of meals, the new take on the fondgoo proved to be delectable with the right ingredients. Thin slices of half-orc proved to be the most popular with the star cannibal and his crew, wildly rich with only mild game flavor from the mixed heritage. The gourmet would never admit it to anyone, but his refined palate preferred the gnoll. The terror only ended after discovering what they thought was a holy grail, a Hungering Flesh that went from cornucopia to consumer in no short order."
70,"Roasted Phoenix: When you're done, you toss the bones in the fire and *pop* the phoenix is back. Also, you can always cook it just right; if you keep going, then it loops rare through well done."
71,"Forever Stew: made with a bit of troll meat which is still regenerating. If managed carefully, one only needs to add vegetables and can continue making a meaty stew night after night, indefinitely. But if you don't eat it fast enough or fail to tend it properly, you could end up with recognizable troll bits (hands, eyes, ...) starting to show up, or worse."
72,"Basilisk Bisque: With a broth made from basilisk scales and filled with root vegetables and basilisk meat, this bisque is normally served in a warmed stone bowl."
73,"Almiraj & Rabbit Buchada: A dish marvellously made with part Almiraj and part Rabbit, both are force-fed until their stomach rips. The organs are then removed and the meat, carrots, cuscus and herbs are stuffed inside the Almiraj's stomach."
74,"Flumph with Undersalmon: The tendrils of a dead flumph are removed, boiled on water along with the sanguine coloured fish commonly known as Undersalmon. It is served with Rice and Potatoes. This Dwarven dish has been since outlawed, with the discovery of the complexity of Flumph society. Although some still prepare it, as not only is it a delicious food, the psionic energy left on the meat brings joy to those who eat it."
75,"Neogi Neck: one of the few parts of the Neogi that are not poisonous, the Neogi's neck has tender meat and takes months to spoil. As such, it's often sought out by adventurers tired of eating the same old dried meat when on the road."
76,"Dry Stirge: this is a common folk food. In places with Stirge infestations, meat is often spoiled as these tiny creatures suck all of its blood and nutrients. Because of that, locals recur to it to replace their meat. The Stirge is prepared on a campfire, but because of the many types of blood that it sucks, it often leads to the eater contracting some sort of disease."
77,"Party meat: Nobody knows who had the terrifying idea of powdering sugar on Kruthik tissue, but certainly it was a madman. Or a genius, once you taste it and realise this abysmal combination is actually delicious. it's almost impossible to attend to a dwarven party without seeing this dish, commonly known as party meat."
78,"Axe Beak beak: This is usually served with the bird's head cut off and the lower part of its beak being decorated with its meat, as well as a plentitude of vegetables."
79,Mind Flayer Calamari: Mind Flayer tentacles chopped and deep fried. Great with soy sauce and rice.
80,"Ankheg Claw Stir-Fry: Ankheg claws are very tough due to constant use in burrowing and therefore require long cook times, but soften beautifully over time. Use ginger, spring greens and your favourite stir fry sauce, goes very well with roughly chopped myconid."
81,"Hydra Eye Jelly: A delicacy among the braver class of adventurers, Hydra eyes became so highly acclaimed in part due to the might of their owners, but also due to the fact that you will generally get a minimum of ten for every Hydra killed. Cook in simmering water until they begin to cloud, then chill in an ice bath and mash before mixing with pork gelatin and allowing to solidify while chilled."
82,"Froghemoth Calamari: Delicious and filling, Froghemoth Calamari is a dish enjoyed by all, cut into rings, removing the cartilaginous and muscular centre before washing well. To cook, broil until firm and serve with olive oil and vinegar or to simply fry until golden and serve with as many dipping sauces as you wish, don't be afraid to experiment."
83,"Pate of Elder Brain: A very difficult meat to acquire and tricky to prepare properly, Pate of Elder Brain is worth the work if you live to taste it. carefully remove all external tentacles and connective tissue before butchering, being careful of the internal connective tissue as you go. Cut into small pieces and place in a pot of water, slowly raise the temperature to medium until firm and blanch once cooked before blending. Ensure brain is really dead before preparing to butcher."
84,"Fried Roc Wings: Once you have your Roc wings, butcher them into pieces around the size of a chicken's wing and lay aside, mix together flour, spices, salt and pepper before carefully coating the Roc meat and frying, be sure that the Roc is cooked through, Roc wings are tough and must be cooked well."
85,"Otyugh Ribs: Who would have thought that a garbage eating Monster could be to tasty right?! Butcher the ribs down small enough to fit into your ceramic oven and cook overnight in your favourite pork sauce, before revelling in the delicious taste of possibly the most amazing ribs you will ever taste."
86,"Remorhaz Stew: Remorhaz is a wonderful meat for stews in that it retains heat forever! The Heat immune properties of the Remorhaz become fallible after their death, but they still require extremely high temperatures to be able to cook. Think smelting furnace, not oven. With such high temperatures required, Remorhaz needs to be cooked by eye due to the limited availability of such heat sources. Dice into evenly sized chunks and cook until very slightly crisp on the outside, tossing as you go before adding to a stew. Sufficiently heated Remorhaz meat will stay hot for hours, even up to a day or two, keeping any stew it is added to hot as long as you wish."
87,"Roasted Bulette Flank: Bulette flesh is damnably tough and needs to be slow cooked with extreme patience. Combine red wine vinegar, balsamic vinegar, soy sauce, brown sugar, mustard, rosemary, olive oil, and salt and pepper to taste to make a marinade. Cut the flank steaks off of the body and marinade them for at least a full day before roasting while continuously basting with the drippings. Once finished you will have a beautifully flavoursome and moist flank that while slightly gritty, is worth the effort of cooking it."
88,"Cave Fisher Sushi: As some of you may know, Cave Fisher blood ignites if exposed to flame or excess heat, therefore the best way to prepare it is to cut the meat into sushi sized pieces and drain as much blood as possible from the flesh before igniting and letting the excess blood burn off, lightly flaming the sushi for perfect preparation. Serve on Sushi rice with soy sauce."
89,"Forest Garbage Sauce: Anything you can use. Violet fungus, myconids, moss, mushrooms. Provides a hearty, earthy base. A secret: the sap of a treant, woad warrior, or blight is bitter. But together, simmer them. Put over any dark meat and find a bottle of dark, cheap red wine."
90,"The blood of a vampire spawn is intoxicating. Mix with a bloody-mary (that tomato based morning juice drink). Add in some raw vegetables. Celery, olives, carrots, and the like. Bottoms up."
91,"Demon Wing Soup: It's very spicy, and the wings are chewy, but there isn't a whole lot for a humanoid to eat in hell, so it works."
92,"Candied Quipper: One of the cheapest quick snacks around. Quippers taste uncompromisingly bitter and have an awful crunch to them. They still aren't very good once dipped in boiling tree sap, but at least they are covered in candy..."
93,"Honeyed Siren's Tongue: The tongue of a siren produces the most wonderful sound when chewed, bards will often accompany instrumental performances with the chewing of a Siren's tongue in order to woo crowds even further. Mixing it with honey makes it slightly easier to chew, but cooking it causes it to lose these magical effects."
94,Water Elemental Juice: The fluid harvested from a living water elemental has been known to retain effervescent properties after being harvested due to residual magic power left over in the collected sample. Water elemental juice can be mixed with anything from potions to fruit juice to make a refreshing bubbly beverage. It is suggested to not drink the substance without dilution.
95,"Pixie Salad: A tossed salad of finely chopped pixies will always produce the flavors of the colors of the rainbow. Each bite may taste like a different color, the first might be purple, the second may taste like red and so on and so forth. The older the salad is since the death of the pixies the closer the taste is to brown."
96,"Trollbalaya: A jambalaya made from troll sausage, typically with a drizzle of boiled troll blood, topped with two Troll's eyes. (Trolls are surprisingly delicious)"
97,"Pulled Orc Sandwiches: Typically made from Orc shoulder or pectoral, the younger the orc the better. Requires 10 hours of cooking over old coals, best seasoned with an elven blend, two chopped onions, and copious salt and pepper."
98,"Burritoes: Giant's toes are surprisingly rich in protein and healthy fats. Chop them, Sear them, cook two behir eggs in the left over grease, and create an excellent set of breakfast burritos. For a bit of added fun, they are best served on the toe nail."
99,"Rib-hirs: Behir's are nasty buggers, but they're good for one thing: ribs. The longest rib cage you will find, gather up your town, or the local goliath tribe, and you'll make a killing off of these. Flay the scales and smoke at a low heat over hickory logs for 2 days, slowly rotating the ribs through. A nice baste of dwarven ale mixed with citrus, or a rub of an orcish spice blend will make this a meal to remember. Just keep in mind the smell will travel for miles, so you might attract a nearby Roc."
100,"Roc Stock & Balor: While not actually made with Balor flesh, this demonic delicacy is as the name implies a stew made from Roc stock and any sort of demonic flesh. Due to the hellish nature of the flesh, the stew does not need any outside heat to work itself to a hearty temperature. Good for those in survivalist situations, assuming you can ignore the faint brimstone smell."

d100,Entry

1,Ring of Calamari: A silver ring with an octopus on it with emerald eyes. Gives you the ability to use the darkness spell 1d4 times per day rolled at dawn.
2,"Dolphin's Tooth Crown: An ornate crown made of dolphin bones and teeth. Gives you advantage on Perception, Investigation, and Nature checks while underwater."
3,"Cup of Yises: when you fill it with water, it transforms it into wine"
4,"Blue Bag of Tricks: Like the standard item but filled with shells that when thrown turn into (d8): 1) sea horse, 2) dolphin, 3) quipper, 4) constrictor snake, 5) giant sea horse, 6) reef shark, 7) giant octopus, 8) hunter shark"
5,"Staff of Flowing Water: Requires attunement. An ornate blue staff. The head is a large blue sapphire with a blue and gold setting in the shape of a cresting wave. While attuned to the staff, you can cast Create or Destroy Water, Water Breathing, Water Walk, Control Water without needing the required spell components. Additionally, up to three times per day, you can use the staff as if it were a Decanter of Endless Water."
6,Message In A Bottle: A glass bottle with a piece of paper inside that details the truth behind a mysterious murder.
7,"A Talking Crab: This little guy can speak common and says he was cursed by a warlock. He wants the party to break the curse, but has no idea how that could be done in the first place."
8,"Neptune's ""First"" Trident: A metal trident with a poorly carved ""Neptune's"" on the shaft. Allows the holder to summon an incorporeal giant seahorse to ride while in water."
9,"Spear of Lilia: A green-copper spear with a tip of obsidian. When this spear deals enough damage to reduce a creature to 0 HP, the wielder may choose to instead bring the creature to 1 HP. This may be used once per short rest."
10,"The Ocean's Testament: A book bound in leaves of seaweed. The book grants 1d8 bonus radiant damage to any melee attacks, 1d10 bonus radiant damage to any ranged attacks, and 2d6 bonus healing to any healing spells cast through it. Each bonus removes 1 charge, the Testament contains 7 charges, 1d4 regained at dawn. If all charges are expelled, use the usual artifact charge rules."
11,"Second Elder's Wrath: A mundane-looking bow embedded with clusters of gems at either end and strung with kelp. This bow may be fired underwater at no penalty, and deals a bonus 1d6 piercing damage to any creatures hit while underwater."
12,"Brinelord's Bane: A silvery steel blade, with the hilt embellished with gold. The blade must be submerged in seawater once a week or else it crumbles to dust. The blade gives advantage to all attack rolls against elementals, undead, fiends, constructs, and fey. Damage against these creatures gains 1d4 damage for every year that the blade has been held by the same wielder."
13,"Repentance: A small, purple gem. Roll a D20; if the roll is a 20, roll a D100; if the roll is a 1 or a 100, the wielder now has 1d4-1, minimum of 1, wishes. May only be used once every 30 days. Once the wishes are dispensed, the gem becomes inert for 3 years."
14,Mask of Water Breathing: Not what you think. This mask was made to allow aquatic sentient beings to breath water on land. Unweary travelers have drown because of that slight misunderstanding.
15,"Snorkeling kit: Made of rubber, glass and a pipe. Can breath indefinitely while within two feet of surface, advantage on perception underwater."
16,Castanets: A percussion based instrument made up of a pair concave seashells attached on the edge by a string. When pinched together they make a clicking noise.
17,Kelp Armor: When dry the kelp provides no more protection than light robes. But when underwater or wet it provides heavy armor protection at no movement penalty.
18,"Trilobiter: A naturally formed sword, older than man. Within it is a plethora of deep see fossils, sharpened by volcanoes and waves. This sword is unbreakable by any non-magic means."
19,"Salt Bomb: A crystallized dynamite stick with a waterproof fuse. When ignited, it crystallizes everything within a 10 ft circle radius. Everything within a 20 ft radius is heavily dusted in salt. A fuse can be cut short enough for the dynamite to detonate in the same round or long enough to take several minutes to detonate."
20,Ship in a Bottle: A dusty old bottle with a tiny pirate ship inside. When the cork is removed a full sized pirate ship explodes out and shatters the bottle. Ship is fully manned by hostile pirates.
21,Captain Curly’s Crude Crusty Cup: The small metal cup turns any fresh water into salt water when filled.
22,"Shell Armour: Shells fashioned in scale style, covers one arm. Light armour; +1 ac against slashing & bludgeoning attacks."
23,Conch Helm: +1 ac against slashing & bludgeoning attacks. Wearer can hear the ocean by listening.
24,Puffer fish poison: 1d12 poison damage.
25,Electric Eel Squeezings: Used as a poison. 1d12 electric damage.
26,"Sea Glass weapon: As durable as any steel equivalent, but lighter and much prettier. May come in enchanted form."
27,"Seal Skin Parka: Buoyant and streamlined, gives bonus to swimming (athletics) checks (e.g. +1, advantage.)"
28,Merflippers: Movement speed of wearer is doubled in water.
29,Shell Shield: Shield made from the shell of a giant clam or turtle. Standard stats at half weight.
30,"Conch Ocarina: Instrument, flute proficiency may apply."
31,"Sword of Triton: A pirate sword with a pommel made from a large, blue gem. The wielder may control a sea-faring vessel they stand on from any point as if they were at it's helm (i.e. steer the wheel of a ship from the crow's nest.)"
32,"Coral Blade: Sharpened blade made with magically hardened coral. Longsword stats + 1d6 lightning, finesse. Requires attunement."
33,"Scroll of Kelp: An arcane scroll that, when activated, entangles one enemy of the user's choosing in 50 feet of soaking wet sea weed. Required a STR check of 13 or higher to break. u"
34,"The Megalodon: A sword made from two planks of wood and a set of razor sharp sharks teeth. Deals 2d4 slashing damage. May appear as a great sword of same design, dealing 3d4 slashing."
35,"Shark Tooth Spear: When a creature is struck by this weapon the shark-tooth at the end breaks off and the creature bleeds each turn, if capable. A shark is summoned and attacks the bleeding creature if in water deep enough to allow. The tooth regrows every long rest."
36,"Staff of the Deep: Magical quarterstaff +2; on a critical hit oily black tentacles burst from the chest dealing an additional 2d12 necrotic damage, if a foe is killed with a critical hit, the body explodes in a 10 foot radius dealing 2d6 piercing damage to all foes or half on a dc 15 dexterity save, the area then fills with darkness for two turns."
37,"The Pearl Trident: A great golden trident embellished with white pearls. On land, the trident deals 3d4 piercing damage. However, when the trident is within 5 meters of a water source, the damage jumps to 6d4 piercing damage, +1d6 radiant damage, which manifests in the form of glowing golden lights around the tips of the weapon."
38,"The Sea-folk Scissors: A copper dome with a handle inside, meant to be worn over the hand. The top of the dome boasts a foot-long copper pole, terminating in a flat semicircular axe head, sharpened to a razor edge. The weapon deals 2d6 slashing damage, and provides +1 to the users AC."
39,"Pistol Shrimp Power Bracelet: A bracelet of crustacean shell, color changes with the time, is always vibrant. Free action, if the bracelet hand is free, the bracelet can become a large shrimp claw that overtakes the entire hand. As an action, the claw can shoot out 1d4 balls of scalding water that deal 1d4 bludgeoning damage on impact and then 1d4 of fire damage. Has 10 charges, recovers 1d4 charges while submerged in water over 8 hours."
40,"Kelp Bracer of Rebreathing: While in water, gain +1 to AC and can hold breath underwater for twice as long."
41,"Driftwood Shield: When soaked in ocean water, gain +1 AC."
42,Fishscale flippers: Gain +20 ft movement in water. Can take the dodge action as a bonus action when fully submerged in water.
43,"Singing Conch: Once per day, can be used to take advantage on soothing an aquatic beast w/ animal handling check."
44,"Sticky Seeds: These seeds, when fertilized by the oceans waters grow into small throwable sticky grenades; DC 15 Dex save on dodge, DC 17 Strength save to escape. Cover a 1 sqft area."
45,"Porthole: A 1ft wide metal hoop, bound to a porthole in the hull of a sunken ship. It has a pool-like surface in place of glass, and acts as a portal to that same sunken wreck. If held with both hands, a torrent of salt water is pushed through from both sides, doing bludgeoning damage and pushing back anything in it's path. STR check each turn or dropped."
46,"The Merfolk King's Merman Fins: Silvery blue and made of some sort of magically infused fabric. These shoes are awkward and cumbersome to wear, -5 ft maximum movement on land +30 ft underwater movement speed, when underwater the wearer appears to have one single fin in the place of legs."
47,"Diving Helm: Ancient and rusted. Gain water breathing for as long as this helmet is worn, as a bonus action underwater you may choose to sink 60 ft; whenever a foe critically hits you, take an additional 1d6 damage."
48,"Sharktooth Necklace: A simple twine necklace with teeth from at least 5 different types of shark. Whenever you take a melee attack action you may also take a bite attack as part of that action as your head temporarily takes on the form of a great white shark's. Bite: +6 to hit, 5ft reach, 1d8+2 piercing damage."
49,"Arya’s Grass Ship: A model ship, woven carefully from grass. If one blows into the sails, it will lift from their hands and float away in the direction it is pointing. It can carry items of up to 8 oz. Does not work if wet."
50,"Seafarer’s Scurvy Skein: A small salt-crusted leather waterskin. If a ritual spell is cast in its vicinity, it fills itself with potable orange juice."
51,Cuttlefish Cutlass: A rusty cutlass with an enchanted cuttlefish wrapped around it. The cuttlefish will grapple anyone it touches. Functions as a touch-range wand of hold person.
52,"Bender's Conch Shell: A conch shell the size of a chicken's egg. While held in the users mouth, the user can speak with aquatic animals at will."
53,Coral Wand: A multi-colored length of coral that is enchanted; requires attunement. User gains the ability to cast the cantrip Light one per round as an action. And gains the ability to cast the 1st level spell Color Spray once per day without expending spell slots (and the user doesn't even have to have any spell slots to cast).
54,"Bracer of the Sacred Shanty: Iron bracer covered with thin ropes tied into intricate knots. Gives the user advantage on strength checks to pull, haul, or push as long as they are singing loudly."
55,Crustacean Claw Gauntlets: Count as unarmed weapons. When worn you can use the big meaty claws as your hands or as dull knives for low damage.
56,"Crossbow of Sinan: An old, light crossbow; it smells of ash and salt water. When shot directly in the air you can choose to destroy the projectile to know which way north is."
57,"Sash of Fair Winds: A sash stitched together from soft and supple canvas, rumored to come from the sails of a famous exploratory fleet. Grants the wearer advantage on checks to navigate at sea."
58,"Siren's necklace: When worn, the wearer gains a singing voice equal to the mystical siren or the horrific wails of the wenches of the sea. Especially effective if wearer is aware of enemy's desires."
59,"Kelpy capsules: When thrown into salt water, out a emerges a fully grown kelpy ready to ride out to where the rider desires. Throw it into freshwater and you get a dead kelpy."
60,"Narwhal Horn: Literally just the horn of a narwhal. Can be used as a spear, with normal spear damage."
61,"Goldfish Wand: It has 10 charges, and recharges 1 per day. It can be used against any creature to impose a CR 13 WIS save. On a failed save, the targets forgets everything that happened that day, except for the last 5 minutes."
62,"Whale Staff: Has 5 charges, and regenerates 1d4 + 1 charges a day. It can be used to pull in creatures in a 20ft long cone, and then blast them 60ft away with a water jet. Any creatures knocked into a wall take 2d6 concussion damage."
63,"Nemo's Hat: A while and blue magical hat, that gives the wearer +3 CHA. Also stops any ship the wearer is on from sinking. Requires attunement."
64,"Current Legs: Tight magical legs that adjust themselves to fit the wearer (on attunement). They give the wearer +50ft water movement speed and stop them from getting hypothermia, but are CURSED: once attuned, the wearer can't take them off without removing the curse, and they also get -15ft ground movement speed, and vulnerability to electric damage."
65,"Horn of the Sea Creature: A large horn, broken off some deep-sea beast. Holes and cracks cover the artifact. When blown into, one of four creatures will appear: a small school of harmless fish, a dolphin, a mermaid, or a shark."
66,"Nodby's Cage: A small, iron cage, 1 cubic foot of interior space. Any creature that is small enough to fit within the cage may be stored in the cage. An environment that is most suitable to the creature is created within the cage, allowing the creature to stay inside for as long as the wielder would like. Creatures within the cage do not feel hunger, thirst, age, or suffer from any other conditions or bonuses that may be incurred."
67,"The Primordial Hammer: A stone greathammer filled with fossil sea life. Upon hit the target must succeed on a DC 9 Constitution saving throw against being magically Petrified. On a failed save, the creature begins to become encased in fossilizing rock and is restrained. It must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends. On a failure, the creature is trapped for 24 hours."
68,Cloak of the Traveler: A Cloak that billows around a native of the elemental plane of water creating a sort of bubble of water that the creature may travel in.
69,Pearl Necklace of Spell Storing: A necklace made of giant pearls harvested simultaneously from the same 400 year oyster. A necklace stores as many levels worth of spells as there are pearls. Excessive value.
70,"Staff of Weed to Eels: Once per day, the staff can be used to transforms one sinuous piece of seaweed per caster level into a small eel. The eel has a 5% chance of being electric per caster level. The eels are under the caster's command and vanish when the staff regains its daily use. The staff can also be used in reverse to transform an equal number of eels to weed."
71,"Ship Bell of Iceberg Avoidance: When attuned to a ship, this otherwise silent bronze bell begins to loudly ring if the ship is on course to strike a large damaging obstacle, such as an iceberg, within the next five minutes. Despite the name, it detects any type of hull-damaging obstacle including sandbars and even invisible hazards."
72,"Lantern of Steady Cargo: When attuned to a ship and lit, this lantern steadies and magically restrains any innaminate large cargo objects its yellow light touches, preventing cargo from shifting or breaking loose from lashings. It works even in horrendous swells."
73,Cursed Black Pearl: A fist-sized black pearl which brings tragedy wherever it surfaces. Those who can see the pearl must make a will save or else be filled with an overwhelming desire to possess the pearl by any means. Anyone in possession of the pearl is stalked by a shadow in the shape of a Manta Ray which will attempt to attack at least once every 12 hours. The curse can be ended by casting the pearl into a large body of water.
74,"Living Rigging: A long length of sailor's grade cord which was once the rigging of a demonic ship. Once attuned, the user can direct the rope to lash out at a creature within 30 feet of it that the user can see. That creature must succeed on a Dexterity saving throw or be pulled 20 feet directly toward the rope."
75,"Anglerfish Circlet: A reddish copper circlet with a blue gem set in the front and adorned with small, sharp teeth. Requires attunement, and lets the attuned player ""turn on"" or ""turn off"" the gem, as if using the light spell. The light has no duration limits, but will go dark if unattuned and doesn't require concentration."
76,Sting Ray Dagger: Tail turned weapon; has enough venom for two hits dealing bonus 1d12 posion damage. Fragile.
77,"Turtle Shell Lyre: Stringed instrument, beautiful but finicky. A good performance with this sounds twice as nice, but a poor one is insultingly bad."
78,"Pacific Polymorph Potion: Roll 1d6 for form: 1. Orca, 2. giant seaturtle, 3. medium shark, 4. swordfish, 5. octopus, 6. giant crab."
79,Conch of Setiwoh: A Mace or Flail; An nigh-unbreakable natural conch. It's spikes and sides deal 1d4 piercing and 1d8 bludgeoning damage.
80,"Deep Sight Eyepatch: A dark leather eyepatch, painted with the image of an odd, inhuman eye that subtly moves in the peripheral vision of those that look at it. The wearer can sense the presence, but not the location of, any aberrations within 200 feet."
81,"Squid-Bait: A deep-sea fish, treated and jarred as bait, attracts giant squids. Roll a d6 for the number of turns in combat it takes to appear, or else a d20 for minutes. Hostile to whatever is nearest the bait until it is consumes the bait, or the bait is lost for other reason."
82,"Shark-Bait: A bottle of chum, treated and jarred as bait, attracts large sharks. Roll a d4 for the number of turns in combat it takes to appear, or else a d12 for minutes. Hostile to whatever is nearest the bait until it is consumes the bait, or the bait is lost for other reason."
83,"Inseine Twine: A 1d10-foot length of tarred twine. This miraculous material is known as the ""Sailor's Lifeline."" A one-foot length can be cut off and used to cast the Mending spell as a bonus action at will, consuming the piece."
84,"Nereid's Love: A golden sardine, disappears at touch. The PC who touched it finds a single fresh fish on their person once a day for 100 days."
85,"Ring of Hydrothermy: Allows use of fire magics underwater, but any damage is halved rounding down. No splash damage, if applicable."
86,"Sea Harness: A riding harness designed for a medium sized aquatic animal. Adjusts well between dolphin and shark, but may be fitted for others."
87,"Eye of the Eye of the Deep: Requires attunement. The eye of a lobster-like beholder cousin, fitted onto a amulet clearly intended for larger creatures. Once per long rest, can produce a 30ft cone from its front. Creatures in the area must DC17 CON check or be stunned 2d4 rounds."
88,"Fishy Dice: A trusty pair of loaded dice, almost always landing on their 5 and 6 sides."
89,"Kraken Beak: Not magical, but very rare crafting material."
90,"Ring of Sebek: Cursed ring, made of ivory. Can only be removed by powerful divine magic if equipped by a good or neutral creature, or upon death. Wearer turns into a feral were-crocodile, once per month, advancing to once per week after four months."
91,Shanty Bell: can be rung underwater and heard like if rung above water.
92,Merman's Bottle: A small blue teardrop shaped bottle that can contain any liquid except salt water. (It let's you drink health potions under water.)
93,Driftwood Armor: A waterlogged chest plate with the same stats as leather armor that makes the wearer unable to be submerged underwater unless the creature pulling the wearer makes a DC 18 strength check. Basically it's a life jacket.
94,Angler Bulb: A small bio-luminescent ball that can be thrown 60 feet. When thrown all creatures within 30 feet must make a DC 13 intelligence saving throw or be compelled to move as close to the bulb as they can. (Note that these bulbs should normally be found in packs of 5 or 6).
95,"The ""Something's Fishy"":A small amulet in the shape of a fish. It gives you advantage to Insight and Investigation checks."
96,Driftwood Compass: Points toward the nearest solid land.
97,"Borgnine Belt: When worn, the users legs become like a mermaid tail. If the belt is worn upside down, it makes the wearers legs heavy as though they were wearing iron boots."
98,Cliffy's Magic Shell: Can be asked for simple advice with a yes/no answer once per day.
99,"Chromatic Kelp: A multi-color rare kelp that can be used with Herbalism kit to make medicine. (Chromatic Kelp Medicine: Gain ""Your hit dice that you roll"" Hit points and cure all the non-magical disease.)"
100,The Ring of Friendly Seals: a ring that allows the wearer to instantly tame Seals once touched by the user.

d100,Entry

1,Pocket sand.
2,A folded piece of leather containing several pieces of blank parchment (A wallet with a checkbook)
3,An Aegis of Recovery; the NPC is unaware of its purpose/doesn't know it has to be worn to work 4
4,A diary/journal that goes in detail about the NPC's life. Further inspection reveals that there is one or two minor magic scrolls between some of the pages.
5,A bag of various gems and jewelry equal to about 300 gold.
6,"A key, with no information of what it is used for. Turns out to be a key stolen from a guard that opens the keep."
7,"A piece of cheese, half eaten."
8,A golden ring worth 100gp and a note 'today's the day!'.
9,"A few small pieces of wood, made to look like silver coins (same shape, size, markings), among some actual silver pieces."
10,"A fishing hook, roll a DC 20 dex save to not have your fingers on it and yell out in pain with your hand still in the pocket."
11,"A love poem, yet to be delivered."
12,"The transcript of an ancient prophecy, describing a heroic person looking a lot like one of the players."
13,"A brass signet ring given to members of a guild or cult. There is an engraving on the inside that says 'Don't be a jerk,' in dwarvish."
14,Nothing. The pockets open to bare skin.
15,"Warrant for Arrest: The warrant depicts an illustration of they who fell the villager, with a DEAD OR ALIVE bounty of 500gp."
16,"‎Keyring of Tools: This savvy farmer had a wizard shrink each of his farming tools (shovel, hoe, scythe, axe, plough, pitchfork, and rake) to the size of keys for easy transportation. Whenever he needed them, he simply popped them off the magical ring."
17,"‎Coin Pouch Empath: A peculiar thing of leather and string, the coin pouch empath is sad and forlorn when empty, but overjoyed and greedy when full. These emotions pour into who so ever carries it."
18,"‎Take Me Back to Sea Shell: Seemingly innocent pocket fodder of the nostalgic seaman, this shell carries within it the sound of the nearest sea, including lively docks, bustling markets, all of sea-kind, and intelligent voices. More time spent listening delivers greater insight into actual discussions, known creature calls, and suggestions of tide and weather– but beware, some Take Me Back shells are known to maintain a feisty crab!"
19,"‎Anti-Theft Stitching: Those quick to trifle will find their wrists stitched in this anti-theft pocket lining! The leather sack wraps tightly around the wrist with magical strength, rendering the hand useless like that in a bag. The pocket bag can only be opened by command of the pocket's owner or the tailor who set the trap. The leather is not so sure to be easily removed– the trap tightens at the wrist with any attempt."
20,"A small piece of parchment with the words 'Dear (npc's name) I have always loved you. If you love me back, please meet me at the tavern tonight. If you are not there, I will understand'."
21,"A small bone knife carved with runes and pulsing faintly with magic, this hobgoblin good luck charm allows one to reroll an attack roll or any skill check involving a melee or ranged weapon once per day."
22,A palm-sized brass coin from a distant Fire Giant city. This Giant coin is equal to 1d4+1 Gold Pieces if you can find a money changer who will accept it.
23,A paper napkin with a few stanzas of poetry or a partial diagram of a machine scrawled on it. 24
24,A piece of chalk and a ripped parchment with Infernal runes and part of a magic circle drawn on it.
25,"A crystal eye, always warm."
26,"A bag full of coins, each one from a different country."
27,A deck of unique cards and a booklet with instructions to play a game of war with them.
28,A leather bag full of seeds.
29,A paper with the last thing a PC did or said to the NPC written on it.
30,A strange cube with buttons on it and cogs.
31,"A roughly scribbled map on a piece of parchment, folded up three times."
32,A feather.
33,Shimmering dust in a vial which after some investigation appears to be the remains of a will o wisp.
34,"An old love letter, neatly but repeated folded and worn from age."
35,"A small, simple pen knife. The handle is old and the wood is worn so that the maker's mark is no longer visible. 36"
36,A poorly made rope doll with button eyes and frayed yellow cloth for hair.
37,"A tiny nugget of fool's gold, worthless."
38,"An empty tinder box, the insides are scorched black."
39,A sky blue baby's bow.
40,A folded piece of parchment warning citizens of pick pockets.
41,A coin purse with a message in thieves cant. The message warns the thief to return the purse or else.
42,An invitation to join the local thieves guild.
43,Used handkerchief.
44,A bottle cork with a small blue star inked on the bottom.
45,A gold coin hidden in a loaf of bread.
46,A snotty handkerchief.
47,Some crumpled handwritten receipts for goods and small change.
48,"A spare pair of clean, but clearly old underwear. Turns out the pocket owner has incontinence and brings backups for accidents."
49,A magical anti-pickpocket snaptrap. It snaps on the thief's fingers loudly and painfully with needle-like teeth and turns the thief's hand bright purple as though indelibly dyed.
50,A half-eaten bread snack wrapped in leaves.
51,A wrapped sandwich.
52,A lovenote (from whomever the DM decides.)
53,A 'Pocket' dimension the size of a pocket.
54,A key to a secret lockbox kept under the NPC's bed.
55,"A small knife in a deerskin wrap. The handle has another NPC's name carved on it, surrounded by little hearts."
56,"A sealed scroll. Depicts an expertly drawn image of a rude gesture, captioned by the words 'Fuck you, buddy.' The text is magical and can be read in any language, so the scroll detects as magic before you open it."
57,A half eaten ham sandwich.
58,The perfect skipping stone.
59,"A big turkey leg, like the size of a large man's hand."
60,A tiny violin.
61,Auto-high rolling dice.
62,A closed thimble filled with cabbage soup.
63,"A small, malleable ball of fluorescent green... something. Aside from molding it with your hands, you can exert your will onto it to make finer shapes."
64,"A handkerchief, heavily used."
65,A small pouch of nuts and dried meats.
66,"A vial containing something resembling soot. If identified, it is revealed to be a vial of ashes."
67,"A small hoard of sheets of paper, all seemingly collected from the corners of posted notices; none are larger than a square inch."
68,Just a few clods of dirt and some pebbles.
69,A single metal needle bent into a perfect circle.
70,A wax seal of a prominent noble in the land who has recently gone missing.
71,A scrap of paper with a script that you can't read (PC doesn't know it is written in illusory script).
72,A charm of obsidian antlers on a broken chain.
73,A couple of pieces of chalk.
74,A crumpled note that is damaged beyond legibility.
75,"A scrap of parchment that has a map drawn on it. It seems to be of streets in a city, but you can’t tell where."
76,"5 pp, but they're actually chocolate."
77,A bag of boogers they've been saving for some sick reason.
78,A love letter to the PC's mother.
79,A popular novel published recently with an elven-made bookmark stuck inside.
80,A very small spellbook containing 3 cantrips and 2 first-level spells. There are also notes about the location of dungeons and the layout of magical ley lines in the area.
81,A cracked or flawed ion stone in a felt-lined box.
82,An enchanted 10 foot pole that somehow fits in any ordinary pocket.
83,A half eaten piece of jerky.
84,"A folded note that reads 'come to (x place) at dusk, thursday night, or you'll never see her again. come alone, and bring the money. Or else.'"
85,A broken pocket watch.
86,A canine tooth with a tiny metal dogtag next to it. It only has a very tiny paw print carved onto it.
87,"An envelope with money and a small letter apologizing for the small amount, promising not to spend any on food next time so the kids will have more."
88,"An old, tarnished wedding ring obviously not worn in a while."
89,A collector's set of very tiny letter openers.
90,"Very large clumps of tangled hair tied tightly together, holding a robin's egg inside."
91,A one year sober chip.
92,A confession love letter.
93,A certificate of adoption for a boy at a local orphanage.
94,A letter to a loved one promising them they will see them soon after nearly a decade apart.
95,"Just a regular silver coin. There is nothing special about it. Nothing, really."
96,A wooden box filled with polished copper coins.
97,An advertisement for the local tavern.
98,A small loaf of bread filled with a spicy pepper sauce.
99,A small wooden figurine carved into the shape of an owlbear.
100,A well made doll. Odd... it looks like one of the players.

d100,Entry

1,"One of the local hunters haulded in a big buck, so we're having venison stew."
2,"Darkmantle soufflé, with hollandaise sauce and a fried egg on top."
3,"Griffin shanks, with secret sauce BBQ."
4,Pseudodragon on a stick.
5,Rack of owlbear ribs.
6,"Caramel fritters, with healing potion baked in."
7,"Blubber Baked Barnacles, local delicacy."
8,"Bobo's JoJos (BoBo is a half-orc bartender and cook, JoJos are essentially seasoned and fried potato wedges)."
9,Stag Steak & Dire Lobster (Surf and Turf).
10,"Illithid Larva in Squid Ink, eat it before it eats you!"
11,Ice cream. Cooled by a business savvy winter wolf who is partners with the tavern's ex adventurer owner.
12,Catch ya own fish and chips.- there's an interdimensional hole in the tavern's floor that leads to the elemental plane of water. We cook anything you catch and provide the chips but you have to supply your own rod.
13,Bread pudding with extra sharp dire goat cheese. Comes with a side of grilled onions and carrots.
14,"Squeaver chili served with a cool glass of Beholstein milk. ""The Squeaver is a many-tentacled furry beast with large buck teeth that spends its days constructing fabulous dams. The Beholstein is truly a special prize of dairy farms across the realm, as its back half is separated from the useful bits, so fertilizer can go directly where it needs to."""
15,Spicy Jambalaya with crispy eel skin strips on top.
16,"Celebratory Goat Stew with assorted fruits, nuts, and cheeses."
17,Potatoes! Potatoes of all sizes. Grab a giant potato bowl for potato soup with a side of roasted potatoes.
18,"Goat and Quail Egg Omelets, served with lingonberrys."
19,"Marinated Artichokes seasoned with caper and chicory, and served on a bed of Wild Mushroom Rice."
20,"Sauteed Partridge in a black raspberry reduction sauce, comes with a side of Grilled Jalapeños."
21,Roasted tarantula with hairs carefully singed off and fangs used as toothpicks.
22,Roasted hazelnuts and fresh apples with a strip of bear jerky and a wedge of ripe cheese.
23,"Kumquat Curd Pancakes, served with a Tankard of Yarrow Beer."
24,"Tom passed last week, and he had a weird will. So we're having Tom Roast."
25,"You lot must've seen that giant pile of crates out front. SOMEBODY (yelling toward the back) accidentally order 10000 ears of corn instead of our usual 100. So, we're running specials on corn, cornmeal, cornbread, cream corn, and other corn dishes."
26,Hell fire peppers: popular among tieflings as they can handle the intense spiciness of them. Warning: extremely spicy.
27,"Sweet, sweet hell: Roasted with onions and slathered with honey. Goes great with any meat."
28,Dragon's eggs: eggs cooked with thin slices of beef and a little bit of cayenne. Salt and pepper according to taste. Served in a bowl with dragons on it for pa-zaz!
29,"A traveling gnome has a new fruit called 'Impression Berries'. Eating it changes your voice to sound like someone else in the room. The flavor is based on your feelings towards that person (ex: if you like them, the berries are sweet. Dislike, bitter. Attracted to, spicy)."
30,Four beautiful sisters were left one piece of their grandmother's special beef stew recipe (who passed away a week ago). They all are too jealous to share their parts of the recipe so the party must decide with faux recipe is the best.
31,"A man is taking his son out hunting for his first time. They're going to cook what they catch. They are accidently attack by an owlbear. The party must save them, then enjoy owlbear venison."
32,"Oyster eating contest! (""Those were mind flayer eggs? Uhh...I don't feel so good."")"
33,A portal to the elemental plane of fire has opened! In small backwater town. The local rednecks have been using it as a pit to cook beef.
34,It's the cook's birthday and has the day off. All we can manage today is day old bread with a stew made from yesterday's leftover roast.
35,Chicken minced pies. They're the [king/queen/emperor/governor/ruler]'s favorite.
36,Meatloaf. Guess the meat and the meal is free!
37,"The town farms have been ransacked by kobolds, but can I get you some dirt soup?"
38,The party just killed a red dragon and freed a town from it's tyranny. The cook wants to try his hand at dragon prairie oysters for the community.
39,"A kraken has been killed. The local tavern host a calamari eating contest, with the villager who eats the most getting accolades and free ale for a season."
40,Thinly sliced fruit slices covered in hardened sugar and topped with honey. DC 10 Con Save or +1 initiative -1 to all checks regarding stillness
41,"A slightly burnt steak filled with a juice from the tavernkeeper, it tastes great but a bloodcurdling yell came from the back when he was preparing it, a human yell."
42,"Pastry-wrapped Goat on a bed of Battered Fried Green Beans, served with doughnuts, lingonberrys, and scrambled quail eggs."
43,"Marinated Artichokes seasoned with caper and chicory with Sauteed Spinach, served with Frybread with pumpkin butter."
44,"Fried potatoes and lamb on a bed of fireroot leaves, covered in a spicy smolderberry sauce. Smolderberries are rarely used in food due to their ashy taste and uncommon growing conditions, but the tavern owner found a way to get ahold of them many years back, and has since taken the time to figure out how to make their smoky flavor shine."
45,"A juicy shark steak steeped in whisperwood sap, seasoned with the tavern owner's signature spice. The shark had been a monster of a beast that nearly sunk the ship that caught it, and it's robust flavor mixes surprisingly well with the overpoweringly sweet sap. The signature spice is literally just wood shavings from the kitchen counter."
46,"A local fishing boat has discovered that, in lieu of actually catching fish, eating seaweed is surprisingly nourishing and tastes... just okay."
47,Nettle Soup.
48,Rabbit in a wine-currant sauce.
49,Orange omelets for harlots and ruffians.
50,Cave Fisher Tail with Cave Fisher bloodwine. (Cave Fisher is a weird cave lobster with alcoholic blood.)
51,Sweet and Sour Cockatrice with rock candy and rice in a stone bowl.
52,Bulette fin soup.
53,Roast velociraptor.
54,Chimera Steak. It's nature's turducken!
55,Deep fried rust monster.
56,Water with ice.
57,Merchants from a foreign land selling foreign foods have recently passed by. Spicy shrimp and rice. Make a con save against psychic damage from spiciness.
58,"Fish eggs. Who eats fish eggs? Why did the “Black Salmon” crash nearby carrying loads of fish eggs? Why would anyone pay for nasty, slimy, fish eggs? Free."
59,Mutton chops with “mutton chops” facial hair seared into it.
60,Leftover Kebab. Roll two specials. Put them on a stick.
61,Drake steak.
62,Deep fried Drake tail (I like the idea of roaming pacts of drakes to drive home the fantasy aspect compared to our world).
63,"Giant Centipede or other insect stew, serve in a shell bowl."
64,It's the cook's night off. The meal of the day is beer. Lots of it.
65,Wild boar sausages with berry gravy.
66,"It's just chicken. I mean, what kind of strange kin y'think we are?"
67,"A band of adventurers came running in begging us to take this heap of ""cursed meat"" off their hands, even threw a few handfuls of gold into a sack to get us to take it... So we're having Mystery Meat for the next night or two."
68,"Had a strange merchant come through with a machine he claimed would make us so much food it would “Rain from the sky”. Meatballs, potato mash, and a strange beverage the traveler called “Cola” will be served here at dirt prices for a while."
69,"The cauldron the size of the table is dropped in the table with no description. It is filled with 3 live octopus, which will be perfectly cooked, after the party kills it themselves, of course."
70,Whiskey stew with rye bread.
71,Pickled purple worm that has been marinating in honey wine and various regional spices.
72,The town has received a mysterious shipment of rations that the mayor is insisting must be sold to the general public.
73,"Mushroom Stroganoff: On the menu it seems normal, but the dish has a purple tinge to it when it arrives at the table. Turns out, it's actually a violet fungus that got into the pantry!"
74,"Traditional English Breakfast; Sausage, Eggs, Tomatoes, and black pudding... While most of the meal is delicious, the blood used for the black pudding makes your mouth tingle with energy--did they use some sort of magical creature to make it?"
75,"Our local brewer has been ""experimenting"" recently. And by experimenting I mean trying to make alcohol out of every fruit they can get their hand on. If you've never tried watermelon wine, now's your chance."
76,"500 year aged Owlbear cheese, served with Ancient Dwarven Wine. Bartender says that of you can eat an ounce of each and keep it down, you'll get free bed, meal, and drink the rest of your life in the tavern."
77,Toad-in-the-hole (real dish in uk - sausages in a large Yorkshire pudding) but there are regional differences in the kingdom. Some use sausages and some use real toads. People are fierce and proud of the camp they fall into. Which is prevalent in this village? Is it insulting to ask then not chose the dish?
78,"A section of giant spider leg that's been been battered and prepared with an accompanying sourweed soup to dip it in. When a frequent taverngoer came across a nest of giant spiders and eradicated it with fire, he offered the owner the corpses. The owner experimented and finally came to realize that, while the abdomen was far too gamy, not to mention poisonous, the legs had a taste and texture similar to crab."
79,"A platter of assorted fruits served drenched in Caldian oil. Caldian oil is exceptionally rare in those parts due to the fact that doesn't grow on the continent, and the tavern owner only has some due to his recent assistance on a traveling merchant's vessel. The uniquely tart taste and tingling sensation provided by the oil is coveted for its ability to give layers of flavor to even the blandest of fare. Do not touch your eyes after getting any on your fingers."
80,"It's Trial and Error Night! Every once in a while, the tavern owner takes a shot at expanding their menu and makes a variety of dishes that aren't normally an option. Roll on the list 3 more times. Over the course of the day, the tavern owner makes the food from each of those options. At the end of the day, the owner serves all of the food at the same time, both independently and in combinations with the other options to see whether any of the experimental fare is worth adding as a regular option."
81,Boar meat cooked in a broth composed of various sour berries and spices.
82,"The tavern is offering a ""special sauce"" that can be added to existing dishes. A successful intelligence check will reveal it to be a dead gray ooze."
83,Oat porridge ...again.
84,"A small, man-made island in the middle of the ocean has a tavern that always serves a veal special. There are no cows anywhere near the island."
85,Oysters Tiamat
86,Sing-for-your-supper: order whatever you want and if you sing a song that charms the bartender (dc12) your meal is on the house. (Players are encouraged to sing)
87,Minotaur patties
88,"The new half-orc chef is preparing what he calls ""Woodman steaks"" (It's Elf). It is similar to pork but lean and with a mysterious, herbal flavor. The chef may approach the right party to ""procure other rare meats""."
89,Kobold scale chips with salsa.
90,"Beer. Just drink some of the fucking beer, its going bad."
91,"A raptor is brought in from the south. Raptor is expensive. The people being poor, and the travelers being stingy, no one wants to buy it. So there’s a contest. If the entire raptor can be eaten in an hour and a half the meal, and all alcohol along with it, is free. Otherwise you pay full price."
92,Giant crayfish tail sauteed in butter with Abyssal peppers and a side of thinly-sliced shrieker steaks.
93,Stewed mule flanks with boiled carrots and parsnips.
94,Boar bone soup: A brown colored liquid with bits of meat that smells bad but tastes great.
95,A small locally caught fish that was de-scaled and dipped in egg then coated in flour. Then dunked in boiling oil and cooked till a golden crispiness.
96,Poached Trout and Walnut Bread with a Glass of Brandy to wash it down.
97,Baked Bear and Mulberry Tart.
98,"Salted Catfish, caught locally."
99,"Boiled Sausage and Sharp Cheese. The cheese was made locally, and considered to be a delicacy."
100,Fried fish. The fish turns out to be a wizard who is unable to polymorph back into his human self.

d100,Entry

1,"The Three Sisters - This strange being is formed from the souls of deceased princesses. The being has three heads, depicting joy, sadness, and rage. It's body resembles a giant octopus."
2,"Yazothle - A formless blob that consumes everything in it's path. It gains the knowledge of anything it eats. The souls of the eaten are sometimes seen trying to escape the creature's ooze-like body, but to no avail. They are trapped for all eternity."
3,"Shuggdus - The monstrous-looking, water-based race. They have powerful hearing, especially underwater. The Shuggdus move along on tentacles instead of legs. They are completely blind and rely on touch and sound to get around."
4,Lovely Fall - This being only appears in the underdark. when it approaches humanoids it does so in the form of a cavern or a well. When humanoids enter the cavern the entrance closes. The cavern is in complete darkness. No light protrudes the darkness. It then leaves behind little gems that radiate light. If all gems are picked up in the cave they form one being. So bright that looking at it blinds you forever. If you don't look at it it slowly creeps closer to you. Until the bright light burns you alive.
5,"Jakęshuž - A bear like creature with the head of a large salmon, though it doesn't seem scary or something dangerous. Don't be fooled this beast was born from the closing of a black hole, it thrives on the hate and anger between lesser beings and will interfere with mortal lives to cause these things. If peace is found, Jakęshuž will be the one to break bonds and force negative emotions. Living with in the deepest parts of the outer realms it waits feeding until it is strong enough to rival Cthulhu."
6,"Vothunae - A being totally foreign to all known plains of existence. Exists in all areas that no other living being can see it, occasionally a poor soul will catch a glimpse of it in the shadows. It’s monstrous, scaly goat head drives most people to a catatonic state with the briefest look."
7,"Concealed Councel - Your mate is acting mighty strange-- no longer favors the pub. When you've brought him some drink he politely refused. Not letting up you callback to old times, and he, just a sip in, collapses. A slithering pulp oozes from his ear, tailed by a blue-haired sack. It ropes its knotted, grainy skin around your leg, and you quite blitzed yourself, no longer desire the dog."
8,"Blind Besetter - Writhing rows of teeth set on a bulbous tongue dangle limp before you, like the pendulum of an annual clock. Sinewy black mucus drips to the floor, slick with algaeic bloom. Nestled in the banister above, a hundred needle beaks watch you from a flesh of huddled skin, peering through the folds at their eager trap."
9,"Whisper Regret - It is just larger than a mammoth, pitch black and sloughing flesh and decay. Where it touches the floor of its vined and wooden cage, lay sharp forcipules the size of knights, curved up into four legs with inverse knees, now chained in painful compression. These squirming hinges jut from an iridescent carapace whose spine is scaled beneath oozing tar and pus. Only it's face -what a face! - finds a window in the cage. howling in agony, without eyes at all, this Earthblind hellspawn gapes with a thousand layered lips in every direction, folding and gasping, and curling and drooling, all budding to reveal its scream from a single, central, digestive intestine."
10,"Gar-Khoza - Strangely enough, this gargantuan beast is quite passive, usually not paying the living much attention and only 'feeding' on corpses and dead plant matter. It resembles a giant amalgam of body parts from various creatures formed into a vaguely humanoid shape. Its state of decay, or lack there of, makes it seem much younger than it actually is. It's an entity of rot, exhaling and surrounded by a necrotic mist. The occasional animal will make their home inside it, usually a swarm of insects or a vulture perched on its back. It shambles around aimlessly, leaving a trail of harmless, albeit alien, fungi and bugs in its wake. It's known to defend itself violently if the need arises."
11,"The One Who is All - a formless, shapeless creature, who, when summoned, assumes the form of each being it sees. This is not sequential. The One Who is All adds the form of each new being to its grotesque visage, eventually becoming unrecognizable other than a mass of twisted limbs and other stolen features. Once it has absorbed enough identities, the being begins consuming the souls of those copied, and the victims become deathly ill and suffer immense pain until they die."
12,"Pülüupuli - It is the thorax and abdomen of a Huge grasshopper, dark red in color. The anterior end of the thorax has been cut off, leaving a blank maw oozing violet ichor. It cannot speak nor reason. It will seize the smallest of the party, and once a successful grapple check is made, will launch itself into the air and fly away. After two turns in flight, it will open a gate to the Astral Plane and disappear. In the Astral Plane, it will place the seized character in suspended animation and use the resulting cocoon as another brick in its enormous lair."
13,"The Ancestor - On a mountain overlooking the sea lives the now decrepit and abandoned mansion of a family lineage that has fallen into ruin. Tales tell of the last member of the family, who became obsessed with forbidden knowledge and legends of the land the house was built upon. Far beneath house lies the result of this blasphemous research, the ancestor, in exchange for immortality, fused his own body with the ancient and towering heart of a massive and unknown eldritch horror discovered beneath the earth. In this form, he works tirelessly to make the comatose horror rise again and unleash an unstoppable reign of horror upon the world."
14,"Shadow Stalker - your character comes back from the dead. For the rest of his/her play, they see a person in a black robe. No one else sees him, but he's there. Watching them in the crowd. Following them. They wake up and see him at the end of their bed. They go to sleep and hear him whisper their name just before they fall asleep. After battle, they hear him clapping. Every year, the man says 'not this time'."
15,"Lover of Nothing - A girl was kidnapped by a creature that may or may not have raped her. She is quiet after this event, afraid to touch anyone or look them in the eyes. She's much more nervous now. It turns out she wasn't raped. She fell in love and willing gave herself to The Nothingness. It showed her what everyone really looks like under the skin: preemptive worm food. She can't un-see how disgusting the world looks now. She can't look someone in their eyes without seeing maggots crawl out. She yearns to be with her love again, if only to feel the warm embrace of the meaningless in it all is again."
16,"Caged One - A tall, lanky humanoid covered in feathers with a beak. Covering the head is a locked bird cage, and the eyes, presumably on the sides of the head, are covered with metal patches. When it speaks, it brings crows to the location in an agitated state, attacking those who are not the Caged One. The crows bring flesh back to the Caged One so it may eat."
17,"Combusting Mimic - Like mimics seen in the past in terms of what it hides with and in. However, these mimics are coated in a secretion that, when the mimic is fully excited, causes the secretion to detonate. These mimics will try to latch onto its target before it explodes."
18,"Living Blood - Mass amounts of blood fused into an entity by otherworldly science. It seeks blood to expand its size, though not intelligently; it seems to be an animalistic instinct. Scientifically speaking, it has the same physical characteristics of blood."
19,"Vuntekúparavan - From behind, it looks like an adorable moppet: a six-year-old girl with a pretty dress and bows in her hair. Her face is entirely flat and blank, but for a circular portal about six inches in diameter, leading to another plane; this changes every minute or so in such a way as to be readily visible. She carries a box about six inches on a side: the material of the box is always valuable but shifts at random intervals, not synched with the mouth portal. If directly addressed, she will lift the lid of the box to reveal a marionette of a ballerina: this will stand up on its own, with the strings trailing all the way up to the heavens, and speak for her. She/it only speaks in riddles; none of the riddles has a correct answer. If attacked, she turns the mouth portal to face the most powerful attacker: a beam comes out and strikes that character for 40d6 damage of a random type. The character must also make a DC 20 CHA save or be imprisoned as per the spell. The Vuntekúparavan will vanish immediately after imprisoning a victim."
20,"Shriek of the Caverns - This obnoxious creature hides in crags and small caves. Its shriek can be heard from miles away, and those who linger too long near it will begin to feel their bones crumble from the pressure created by it. Up close, it resembles an extremely round and fat beetle, however, where its face would be is an impossibly large maw."
21,"Chitintu - Approaching with the tides on large beaches is a massive creature, appearing to simply be claw upon claw upon claw, clinging to a hard and slim shell. Seaweed-like tentacles trail twenty feet behind the mass. When hungry, the shell will split vertically to reveal teeth all along its interior."
22,"Moss of the Insane - A mass of yellowish moss is under your feet for many feet. It seems like the ground itself whispers through the yellow moss. Often, while walking across it, your foot will become unnaturally stuck. Upon closer inspection, each tendril of moss appears to resemble a tiny hand with long, decrepit fingernails, and where the palm should be, a tiny, drooling mouth. When bare skin is bitten by this monstrosity, the victim will be unable to think clearly or speak beyond tongues."
23,"Sköllmunger - A seemingly drunk, frail old man stumbles out of hiding to puke ichor black tar which immediately attacks the party. The continuous pillar of black bile envelopes the man and spiked tentacles and spears pierce and grapple the party. Weakness to sunlight, loves graveyards."
24,Oculus of the Fire Court - A 5 meter tall D'jinn aspect of fire with three faces. Hooded and jewel encrusted it teems with ancient knowledge but at a price. Can transport the party to an arena in the Fire Elemental plane for trial by combat. Weakness to water and Fire Genasi have advantage on persuasion checks.
25,"The Scourge of the Air Naiads - Three zombified rocs that spit up zombies, cause hurricanes, and have advantage against dragons and dragonborn. The ancient avian corpses can never be truly destroyed due to the mysterious revenge magics of the long extinct air naiads. Violent and capricious as their old masters these birds violently attack anything with scales until 'all the dragons join us in the void'. Weakness to non dragon sources fire, if both a Water and Air Genasi are in the same party they have advantage on persuasion checks."
26,Xorus - The mother of all krakens.
27,Aspect of Fenris - The shadow of a giant dire wolf of the Apocalypse. The howl blots out the sun and shakes the earth.
28,Shadow of Queen Mab - The fey usually lock away their shadows in their own dark corner of their realm. Over time they develop their own personality and intelligence. Gods help any plane of existence she pokes her head into.
29,"The Inside Inn - Creatures lured to this inn feel compelled to stay the night, only to find the doors are locked and the Windows lead to frothy mist outside. Through the halls wander the deformed, monstrous husks of previous guests, and a single touch infects you with an illness that drives you violently insane, twisting your mind as well as your body. Only by hiding in your assigned room can you escape the other guests, as long as you can withstand the unending torment of their attempts to break inside. The inn tricks you, too -- it will fill your head with visions of escape, only for you to one day wake back up inside its bed, your life since your escape revealed to be merely an elaborate dream."
30,"The Clone Worm - A cosmically large worm hundreds of millions of kilometers across, consisting of the warped and deformed bodies of countless assimilated civilizations. The worm senses and is attracted to the formation of empty husk bodies, like those formed by the Clone spell, and when it draws close enough to be seen twisting and turning in the sky, any creatures created through cloning or through creating genetic copies come out wrong, deformed, warped, often beyond recognition at all, sometimes huge and bloated and other times spindly and wicked. Interestingly, this also affects creatures who have used teleportation magic, as well as any who have been reincarnated or resurrected."
31,"Sheyeoxks - This extra dimensional being, the size of a solar system, creates wormholes to tunnel through the universe one dimension at a time. Its true form, being of hundreds of dimensions, is impossible to conceive. It's so big it has its own gravitational pull."
32,Deep Ones - A virgin sacrifice must be made once per fortnight: drowned above the deepest and darkest parts of the ocean. These tentacled watchers will pull the coastline into the sea if left unappeased.
33,R'hhk - A stone block is convulsing unnaturally. Looking upon the stone block has a chance of giving cackle fever and looking at it afterwards can cause a cackle fever fit. Players can avert their eyes.
34,"Yab-Mthol, The Eternal Price - This small creature appears as an anatomically impossible amalgam of bat, seagull and scarab- with every flap of its six wings, steel carapace grates against bone and tendons rip to pieces, only to regenerate again. Yab-Mthol howls with two throats as it flies, and never tires- it has no way of resting on the ground. The creature follows around one specific creature, sometimes for a day, sometimes for centuries- it never harms them or antagonizes them, but most of it's 'prey' are eventually driven mad by the creatures constant pursuit."
35,"The Dustman - A man in a simple white tunic is occasionally seen walking along a road, by one person, occasionally two. He is shrouded in a light cover of kicked-up dust and smoke from the road, though his form is visible. Nobody else sees or remembers the Man. Those who see him cannot describe his face, or race, or any discerning features, despite the man sticking clearly in their memory- there was something off about him. Something Wrong. That night, those witnesses are found dead, their bodily cavities filled with choking, harsh dust."
36,"The Vrenbliock - A gargantuan monster consisting of nothing but murderous eyes, hundreds of long spiny arms, and a large mouth. It disguises its grotesque body as a cloud. It uses its hiding place in the sky and its long arms to reach down and pick up unsuspecting prey. The only problem with its disguise is that it’s closer to the ground than most clouds."
37,"Dark Horror - It is seen in the form of a strange gas approaching the person, or a dark shadow behind someone. Sometimes it has a corporeal form, but no one can hit it, instead it just passes through. It only lives in the dark, although light does not kill it. It attacks by stalking a person and entering them, taking control of them. When they take control of someone, their objective is to kill the most people around it and then kill himself. When in shadow/gas/corporeal form, it has a low health pool, and when you attack it in any form radiant damage will be effective, while necrotic will be ineffective. When in shadow form, radiant is the only one to hit."
38,"Pale Strider - From the foggy mist extends a long, gigantic and lithe limb attached to a large clawed foot. The flesh is human like, but is a sickly white and translucent showing the network of veins below. The creature’s body is obscured by an ever present ethereal fog that is chilling. It moves silently for its size and is rarely hostile unless provoked. It's fog does necrotic damage and wherever it travels, a plague seems to follow."
39,"The Dread God - This being is the deity of the Seventh Circle of Hell, where even demons and devils dare not tread, where all is so far removed from what is known as life that even the merest touch of the least of its denizens will siphon off the vitality of mortals, fiends, and celestials alike in moments. The Dread God is the most powerful of this realm. It is not evil, as we understand it. Good and evil are not concepts that have meaning to it. It does not seek wanton destruction, or chaos, or peace, or war, or domination. It merely hungers for energy. The fact that taking this energy from Upper Circle beings also kills them is not a notion that even registers for it and those it rules, for they do not understand that Upper Circle beings are even alive. They are vessels of energy to them, no different to them than drinking water from a paper cup then throwing it away is to mortals. Mortals do not mourn for the paper cup, the Dread mourn not for those they consume. Those that discover this being, and worship and bind themselves to it, will eventually discover means to siphon life and send it to the Dread. These worshippers are, of course, considered evil by their peers."
40,"Warm Embrace - This being which reproduces in manners unknown is made out of a single material. It looks a lot like boiling blood. These creatures can range in size from a single drop to bigger than galaxies. They don't seem to know where they are as they move throughout the universe with no for regards for gravity or matter. If it comes across an obstacle it will try to go straight through it. Soaking the object and boiling it. This object can be a rock or a city, the creature will soak it either way. The carnage left behind is burned organisms and destroyed buildings. Nobody knows why or how they move and to where."
41,"Hell's Guardian - An angel that appears to those who are destined to fall in battle. The Angel matches the height of whomever she is visiting, and her wings are always closed behind her back where on the tips of the wings are covered in dark violet shade of blood. The blood originates from the quill of each feather along the tops of her wings, often the blood drips down her wings in very solid stream still warm from her veins. No mortal has seen her face which is covered by a mask crafted by Bhaal, God of Murder. As legend has it the mask was former Guardian's skull know damaged beyond all recognition due to the flames that were used to forge it. The Guardians hair is bleached red for obvious reasons, and her dress once virgin white has turned black as the night."
42,"Bone Bastard - The ancient legends tell of a towering horror that has a root in all of mankind. This creation of the underworld is the primal root of death for all living things. The Bastard is known to carry incurable diseases that have wiped out whole civilizations. The Bone Bastard is a seventy foot tall giant that wears old torn webbing, dust, and the feeble smell of death with not a single piece of flesh beneath it. Those who have seen the giant know of its legion of skeletons that crawl all over its body praying for the opportunity for The Bone Bastard to stop long enough to murder any humanoid who crosses there path. The Bone Bastard himself has no set destination which causes it to wonder from place to place searching for its own destruction."
43,"Immortal Suffering - Rumored to be from the Plane of Shadows this apparition has caused the most painful deaths conceivable to the human mind. This ghost is known to appear those of the pure hearted, for it prays on the aspiration of those trying to achieve a new level of spiritual awakening. The Ghost is a pair of light blue eyes that stair out from its black mist like form, and devours its prey by forcing a part of its mist down the victims throat causing them to chock to death."
44,"Seklitlosri, The Black Tear - A massive winged toad with tentacles on her head to bring prey into her razor teeth maw. She has followers who collect her tears in urns. Any living creature that drinks from water polluted with the substance mutates into a toadish creature like them."
45,"Borovoi - a towering creature of long thin limbs, it hides among the trees, taking the appearance of the forest it inhabits. Preferring the flesh of the apex predator, the Borovoi attracts woodland creatures to serve as bait. The bait is kept docile and unaware, luring the hunter close enough to become the prey."
46,"The Chittering Library - A vast collection of knowledge composed of mangled rats that exists between our reality and a higher one. Every century it sends out an emissary to lure children and rats into it's recesses so that they may be twisted together, allowing the Library to expand itself."
47,"Thump - This being exists purely in the heartbeat of life itself. It is the undercurrent of all fear, the energy that spurs our deepest horrors on. It has no goals, no meaning, and no manifestation outside of the hideously loud beating of blood in the terrified masses' ears."
48,"The Flesh - This being is a huge mound of mismatched and misshapen limbs and organs, both human and bestial. Its malformed body is trapped beneath the earth, yet it does not seem to make any effort to break free. However, when a living being is within grasp, it flies into a frenzy and attempts to devour it. Every so often, gaping tears crusted with blood and pus open in the flesh and birth a new body. In most if not all cases this gives life to some fresh abomination that's not quite human nor animal and oftentimes the Flesh will feast on it before the creature can escape. However, some travelers that have stumbled upon the Flesh's cavern prison swear they have seen animals and even humans tear their way free from its unnatural womb, and the implications and grotesqueness of these events have driven the witnesses mad."
49,"Qho, the father of Monsters - In the guise of a constantly fleeing mortal dressed in rags, this monstrosity from beyond the veils does not even know what it is. Most of its mind slumbers, dreaming that it is a mortal and haunted by paranoia. Whenever the mortal part of this creature comes into skin-to-skin contact with anything it creates a degenerate, brutish clone with mutated body of that creature. Should Qho be slain in this form, there is a chance that the true creature might wake from its nightmare filled slumber."
50,"The Unseen Queen - A placid and and comely woman who seems to have a supernatural predilection to not be noticed. She radiates a sense of reverence, obedience, and manic joy. Wherever she walks a throng of easily persuadable people follow. These groups tend toward violent destruction and profane sacrifices once the crowd grows large enough."
51,"Crealeth - A hulking monstrosity that waits in the darkest depths. A fleshy transport for the vile creations of the aboleth, the Crealeth is a large whale like creature covered with pustule abrasions that constantly leak a black tar. The creature is host to an exposed maw of needle like teeth as large as the fiercest warrior and a row of blind eyes wrapping around its large dome-like head. The Crealeth is a means to an end, an unstopped leviathan carrying in its stomach the oozing and decaying armies of the aboleth."
52,"Shul'thaa or The Wither - Deserts are born when the withering heat slays the very earth, beating the foundations of life deeper and deeper into its sweltering heart. There are people who say it is not the sun, nor the wrath of gods who bring this terrible blight to the world. Instead, it is death himself. The Sultans build their temples in remote deserts to appease him and stop his wandering for a time. The abandoned villages whose fountains ran dry are said to be his home in places where stone fails to hold him. But still, when the halls he haunts turn to dust with age, he wanders, and where he wanders life will begin to dry and swelter and eventually wither to dust and desert. Certain men are said to find his dwellings in their dreams, or sometimes in their wanderings deep into the dunes and ruins. These men return or wake as lepers, cursed by death himself to remind man of what will eventually come. But to see him will turn you to dust, age you beyond aging is possible. He is the eventual ruin of all things."
53,"Urumaggoath, the Mother Bull - A bulbous red mass of bare muscle and erectile tissue, this abomination seems to be in a constant state of giving birth to itself. Tufts of black hair protrude here and there only to vanish and then reappear again. It has no limbs; rather, its underbelly is full of human-like molar teeth with which it drags itself on the ground. What it touches, it crushes and grinds to atoms."
54,"Tagrabui, the Rotten Man of the Marsh - A gargantuan half-decomposed bear with sloth-like front legs, blind eyes and moss growing on its back. Drool drips from its ever open maw: it ultimately hungers for the Sun, which it's destined to devour when the time is right. Being in its presence causes the sensation of drowning and objects around it act as if they were underwater. Certain swampland tribes, who do not know any better, worship it as a god of death and rebirth."
55,"The Tongue - A small tentacle roughly the size and shape of a tongue. Its slithers and tries to fight its way into its victim's mouth, where it absorbs the original tongue. Whoever the Tongue possess now is controlled by the void, and it speaks through them."
56,"Little Red Hood - A creature that is never seen except from afar, in the woods, and from behind. It resembles a little girl in a red cloak, and is always singing softly in a childlike voice. Anyone trying to catch up will see it slip into to the trees, with a mischievous giggle. Wolf Bones are left as offerings to her on the trail; anyone who disturbs them will never find their way back out of the forest."
57,"The Leaf Pile - At first, this creature appears as a simple Autumn leaf pile. However, this is just a clever cover up. The creature can sneak around when no one's looking, and can come upon its victims from behind, engulfing them. It is through this engulfing process that they can petrify victims"
58,"The Summer Cattle - quadrupedal entities resembling emaciated camels or antelope caked in dried earth. In the vicinity of a herd, the sun is bright, the air is still, and the skies are forever clear. The day's heat seeps into shade and shelter, and lingers long into the night. Where they graze, plants wither. Where they drink, springs go dry."
59,Time's Breath - Willowy deer-like creatures of impossible grace and striking beauty; the sight of which quickens the breath and the heart. Time ripples in their wake.
60,"Cuterebra Cerebrum - When Cooper said their kid had something stuck up their nose that was wriggling, I expected it to just be a run of the mill botfly maggot that had nested up there. But when I started pulling and that thing kept coming out, inch after inch, foot after foot, I started to worry. And as the kid screamed louder and louder, I started to panic. And when the sight and the stench of that dreaded maggot had become too much to bare, I started to feel dizzy. And when I woke up again and the kid was dead, the maggot was gone, and I felt something burrowing through my skull... I didn't really feel anything ever again."
61,"Aakenraah - A massive, slimey orangish-pinkish worm-like creature that secretes an acidic substance, leaving it in trails wherever it moves. Aakenraah's only desire is to drink the blood of living creatures. The creature has a manipulative mind, able to convince many weaker minded beings to bring it more food."
62,"A crawling orb with a gaping maw that leaves a slimy rut wherever it drags itself. It vomits a stream of teeth, blood, and gums, which assemble into undead-like mockeries of life."
63,"This pulsating smearlike-mass looks like a cross between brain matter and colorectal polyps. It travels in teleporting blinking waves across the land. It is not much of a danger but has a nauseating appearance. It is speculated to be the interior of a twisted extradimensional creature intersecting the plane, perhaps explaining why attacking it causes aggressive aberrations to appear like an immune response."
64,"A head-sized, cucumber-green cross between a sea anemone, a clam, and a tunicate. It has fivefold symmetry, a flower-like razor-sharp shell, siphons to help it move and defend itself, rows of tiny glass-like eyes, and grasping filter-feeding tentacles that eat ... nothing as far as you can tell. It doesn't seem intelligent but has an alarming tendency to appear in large groups when no one is looking, sometimes in populated areas. Some contain clathrate orbs with yellow roe-like nuclei inside."
65,"Its true form is like a crab dashed upon rocks and the shattered pieces were then reassembled by a mad child without reference to the original being, complete with biological tubing holding it together. It disguises itself as an ordinary wall. It only advances when you are not looking at it. It favors mazes and tunnels with twisted passages leading to dead ends. It uses all manner of trickery to pin people in dead ends where it delights in waiting for sleep to overtake its victims."
66,"Its four legs are burrowing paws with wicked talons. Its underside is down feathers, its back is quills as long as pikes. Colored like a hawk, its headless neck ends in a great sharp black beak that gleams ferociously. Prey is not devoured but is instead pierced and left to rot upon the quills that adorn it. It reserves its neck quills for its favored prey."
67,"The Unspoken Mechanism - larger than an elephant, the mechanism resembles nothing so much as the fever dream of a mad watchmaker. it's countless gears made of any and every material imaginable. it lurches forward inexorably on seven mismatched legs, the low rumble of it's movement punctuated by incessant, irregular ticking noises. it views the world through more than a hundred eyes, not its own. glass spheres filled with an oily, slightly cloudy liquid each contain a dozen or more eyeballs from various species and beings. these spheres are affixed to the ends of short sections of girder, shaded by large metal plates which arch over the back of the mechanism. the mechanism feeds indiscriminately, replenishing and strengthening itself with every meal. it catches living prey with a set of metallic tentacles which lash out in front of it. these segmented arms draw living beings into the mechanism, where they are slowly ground apart by its gears, the metals and minerals their bodies contain are absorbed, and what cannot be used is pulped and drained away. from the underside of the mechanism drips a slow stream of this fluid, which corrupts the land it passes over and causes strange, twisted plants and fungi to develop."
68,"Molungth the Aspect of Brutality - Molungth is a giant, made from countless sewn or bolted together human corpses. The bolts cover him in spikes. He wields a chainsaw which's teeth are actually human torsos with longer than natural arms and long clawlike hands as-well-as ghoulish heads with fangs. The chainsaw rotates, making the halved zombies slap, smash, bite and tackle into whatever he swings it at. The wheels over which the many chains that produce the weapon roll resemble old cart wheels. As every undead creature in the giant's body is always screaming and laughing, he can be heard from miles away."
69,"The Swimmers - Strange, swanlike humanoids who travel through air, stone, or metal like all reality is just a reflection in a pond, distorted by ripples and the Great Stones which inexorably alter our courses..."
70,"Lfjeghoull - An amalgamation of twisted lines, like a child's scribble given flesh and form. In the center of the swirling, writhing lines are hints of a face..."
71,"Stylhurst Lake - At the bottom of Stylhurst beats the rotten heart of a nameless old one. Locals report seeing mysterious floating lights over the lake, but recently, their attention has been on their own backyards. Pets of all kinds have been witnessed marching out the lake every night, while the native wildlife behave as if nothing is amiss."
72,"Dalgd’r’s Aria - In an unsuspecting cave in Virginia, sealed behind an elder sign, sleeps The First of the Born, Dalgd’r. She is a massive, salamander-like monstrosity who has spent the past millennia readying her nursery for new spawn. Her avatar, a scruffy looking Scottish Terrier, lures unsuspecting locals into the cave where they join her as an embryo before being reborn into her cosmic hive mind of abominations. Throughout history, for unknown reasons, a distinct melody seems to crop up in the area around her chambers. The song has been known to cause uncontrollable fits of laughter and dancing."
73,"Husks - Near dead mortals with a desiccated appearance. These creatures bore witness to the horrible truths of the universe, and can often be found near eldritch treasures or knowledge. Their skin seems stretched tightly over their body, their eyes a milky white, and their ears torn and bloody. They congregate together and violently attack any who would trespass upon the secrets they discovered."
74,"Tyhuuth,The Judge - This being has a vaguely humaniod head and upper body attached to a large spider-like lower body with tentacles instead of legs. It emits a sound that is similar to a gavel smashing hard wood. Those in the presense of Tyhuuth are judged by the elder god. Those he deems worthy transformed into his Disciples, highly powerful Ithilid-spider hybrids. Those who are unworthly become pulsing blobs know as the Condemned, who search the world for those to bring to bring to Tyhuuth, in hopes of becoming worthy for more judgement. Tyhuuth however, does not care for anyone except his Disciples, who push his plans to return an reshape the world into his twisted vision, where is judgement is gospel."
75,"Gorgloth the Sweet - A lump of dark disgusting flesh with what looks like red glowing corals on its back. It gives out a sweet fruit-like scent which affects the mind of nearby creatures, giving them the urge to eat Gorgoloth. When the disgusting feast is over, the creatures will themselves will slowly turn into two Gorgoloths. Gorgoloth is actually one creatures but expands the amount of bodies under its control using this method."
76,"Halpolan - For some reason, its influence makes people deeply hungry for the left feet of other humans. At first it is simply a strange urge, easily dismissed and forgotten; if the influence is not stopped it grows into a near inescapable obsession."
77,"Oorashanee the Uncaring - It moves like a hopping bird on three great hands and smells like honeyed words on a warm summer night. In its presence emotions are hollow and eyes grow empty, but The Uncaring neither notices nor forgets."
78,"Gorgon of Nenth - An amalgamation of faces, breasts, and sex organs. Many of the faces share features such as eyes or mouths and wear expressions of great pain or pleasure. Its characterized by hearing its animalistic moans and howls long before it reveals itself. Despite its monstrous appearance, uncontrollable lust is induced upon those who see it in their dreams. The witnesses often whisper of joining the mass in its endless pleasure, and disappear several weeks afterward."
79,"Fractured-Reality-Leaking-Unease - An entity that does not truly exist, except in the lack of understanding to which lesser creatures attribute their ignorance. A conscious concept birthed from the collective uncertainty present in the minds of all those that think, from the lowliest of vermin to the highest of gods, It is comprised of and sustained by the creeping doubts that lurk beyond one’s field of awareness. It has no name or shape that can truly convey its essence, for at its heart it is the sum of all untouched knowledge, a sentient vessel of everything unknown. It desires more. It detests the intangible membrane withholding Its core from enveloping all of perceived reality, and It hungrily desires to drown everything that could be something in its abstract unknowability. It bides Its time, lingering just beyond the barrier of what is perceived, and crack by crack, It worms itself beyond Its unknowable prison and into the broken edges of reality and the shattered thoughts of those It invades."
80,"Yadon-Izfarod - There are many different kinds of love that exist. Parental love, romantic love, obsessive love, companionable love, bittersweet love, one-sided love; there are so many kinds of love. Yadon-Izfarod wants them all. It does not just want them in the sense that it wants to experience every type of love. No, Yadon-Izfarod wants to have all those loves, to own and possess them. In order for an ancient, faceless monstrosity such as Itself to eventually have every facet of love within Its grasp, It patiently and carefully waits for opportunities in the form of connections being made. Yadon-Izfarod uses these connections and infests the minds and hearts of those who formed the bond, twisting their very perceptions until love takes shape in one form or another. It feeds off the newborn love shared between those who have the bond like a leech, which in turn strengthens the unnatural love it induces even more. Yadon-Izfarod is never seen, for a visage such as It’s should never be beheld and could never be loved, and so Yadon-Izfarod haunts distant stars and drinks from the only thing that it truly cherishes; a parasite that dreams of one day becoming not just a host, but the only host."
81,"Boreal Algid, Rime Ghoul - This entity appears as an orb of cobalt-tinged light. Anyone who approaches will experience a creeping cold that increases slowly and steadily, accelerating as they advance closer to the Boreal Algid. If they do not leave the presence of the Boreal Algid they will die of hypothermia. The Boreal Algid is drawn to heat, and will draw close to torches or lanterns. Once these sources of warmth are exhausted, it will be attracted to body heat which it will absorb steadily, pulsing as it does so, until only a frozen corpse remains."
82,"Ygathu, Endless Rage - for miles away from the site of the valley harboring this horror, howling screams can be heard. Those who see the creature would be disgusted by a huge screaming maw uncannily filled with many powerful reaching arms and numerous long extended antennae. It seems to be very, very angry about the fact that the rest of its body has been stuck underneath a fallen pillar of rock for at least a century."
83,"Boucbin, The Plague - 'Michel’s death marked, one might say, the end of the first period, that of bewildering portents, and the beginning of another, relatively more trying, in which the perplexity of the early days gave place to panic… Our townsfolk realized that they had never dreamed it possible that our little town should be chosen out for such grotesque happenings as the wholesale death of rats in broad daylight or the decease of concierges through exotic maladies… Still, if things had gone thus far and no farther, force of habit would doubtless have gained the day, as usual.' - The Plague by Albert Camus. Boucbin is an unstoppable, unseen horror that destroys by their very presence. If this monstrosity dressed in the skin of men, monsters, rat, pigs, or pigeons, steps foot within ones boarders a hideous plague follows in it's wake. In times before the classical, the ancient, even before humanoids first picked up stones as tools, Boucbin walked this plane; seemingly searching. But for what? What could satisfy a creature of such power that to him civilizations are less than ants on it's path? Perhaps, in it's infinite age, it seeks peace, it seeks it's own death."
84,"Net of Flesh - A net-like organism (looks a bit like a fan coral) made of bone and flesh that grows endlessly along a surface (and up around any vertical surfaces), rotting and bleaching all matter below it, turning stone ashlike. It contracts in response to pain, but reveals little else. Only purpose seems to be endless growth. Will grow over and trap anything that doesn't move out of the way."
85,"The Hidden - A chaotic mass of slender, jointed bones (roughly fingerlike in diameter and anywhere from a few inches long to a foot long for each segment) wrapped tightly in desiccated flesh, its form streaked with subtle vertical ridges down towards an indiscernible center of mass. Pulls itself violently and almost magnetically into shadowed corners. Roughly the size of a child when fully retracted into a corner, where it may hide for weeks, warping the consciousness of those in proximity over the course of weeks by giving them the sensation of impossible spans of time passing in near instants. Will grow the longer it is 'attached' to a single host until its form curls up along each of the shadowed edges of the room and overtakes the space, the host completely blind to its existence."
86,"Ur'Athka, The Lord of Nothing, Voidchild, The Man Between Spaces, The Godhole, etc. - An Elder being that embodies, consists of, and resides in nothingness. Visually, He appears as a gash in reality, looking like a spot in space where nothing exists, like a humanoid black hole, without the gravity and absolutely colourless, including black. When looking upon him, viewers feel an immense sense of unease and wrongness, as well as excessive existentialism, and upon looking away, little to no memory of him can be remembered, and as such, has next to zero followers, not that he cares. All writing about him is made by unknown sources, and instead of being written, is obtained from words being slashed or burnt out of a parchment, with the left over gaps being slightly legible. Very apathetic, having no care about people. Sometimes strolls through random areas, with anything that touches him being sent into oblivion."
87,"The Warden of Fengsai - A humanoid figure appears with a dark green cloak and a menacing metallic mask. The warden speaks with a mottled but feminine voice, describing souls that are promised to her and how she will grant powers in exchange for the hunting down and executing of those souls."
88,"The Sign - An intricate and wicked-looking symbol that, when drawn on a person's flesh with virgin's blood, subsumes the victim's will to its own until the sigil is removed. The Sign's legitimate worshipers work publicly to care for orphans and promote pious celibacy. In more secluded settings, terrified children are slaughtered to provide blood for the Sign's renewal upon its bodies. The Sign's goals are manifold, primarily centered on ways to apply itself to new victims. Expect cultists to be midway through constructing a blood canal in the shape of the Sign over your city, moving shipments of kidnapped children to endangered cells, or attempting to imbue a branding iron with enough pure souls to apply the Sign permanently."
89,"Gzgeth, The Wandering Maw - This bulbous abomination closely resembles a starfish, but house sized (but technically never stops growing). Long arms that extend out radially, as well as thousands of tube feet that propel it forward (see starfish movement). On the top side of its body where all the arms originate is a massive radial maw that its arms are always dropping things into. Its maw contains layers upon layers of teeth all the way into the gullet. The maw emits such a stench of decomposing matter that the word 'stench' makes it sound pleasant. Once again like a starfish, any of its massive limbs that get cut off for some reason can simply grow back. In fact it will purposefully remove one of its own limbs for a variety of reasons (defence, offence, distraction), which can survive just fine because its arms contain a high proportion of its brain cells (see octopus brains). It is a red fleshy colour, with toothy spikes here and there. There arent just one of these things, there are many, and they love coming in to new worlds to feast on organic matter."
90,"Mother at the Gate - An indescribably massive creature at the other end of Yog-Sothoth. From tears in reality formed from burst bubbles of The Gate, she can be seen pressed against the edge of reality. A vaguely humanoid figure with jaundiced skin, ill-defined fat, musculature, and bone structure- more like the abstract concept of the humanoid form. No hair, genitalia, nails, ears, or any facial features. Three glassy, two-dimensional planes project in front of her face, two displaying eyes and one a mouth, all oversized. The planes engage in repetitive actions such as saccadic eye movements, blinks, and lip movements. Produces no sound except for when crying and vomiting liquid starfire, from which skyscraper-sized 'children' fall. Most of her appearance is inferred from these 'children'- at the edge of the gate little more than her plane-eyes or mouth can be seen. A vague sense of maternalism or Munchausen by proxy aside, her behavior is in no way comprehensible to mortals."
91,"Vanadrish, The Mauled Corpse - This creature resembles the a skinny man with multiple gaping wounds in his upper body and ripped out legs. He normally lies in wait, pretending to be a corpse untill someone is unfortunate enough to step too close. If this happens, a constant stream of rats and insects spews forth from the holes in his body, to attack everything around him. When everything is dead, the vermin retreat into his body and he begins to consume the corpses."
92,"Yethverel, the Mirror - a shapeshifter of sorts that mirrors the actions and appearance of any who look into the pool of reflectionless water where it resides, waiting for a living creature to touch the surface."
93,"Your-Friend - This being is said to be the father of all devils, the embodiment of bargains. Said to be without true form, this being will appear bitter and desperate and bargain for a soul. Not their own, but the souls of those close to them, be it by blood or some other bond. His ability to do this frightens those even other devils."
94,"Entropon, The First Dragon - Calling this entity a dragon is a stretch. If you squinted, and tilted you head sideways, perhaps its may resemble one. In any case, this entity features a long Eel-like snout with no eyes. A Pharyngeal jaw system (jaw within a jaw) encloses its razor teeth. Wispy spines extend backwards from the head and down all the way around the long neck to the shoulders. This entity does no have a 'right side up' for its limb structure is radial. It can manipulate its 12 of sets of limbs to orient itself in nearly any direction, which is useful for climbing through asteroid belts, and other celestial objects. It does not have wings, but merely wispy tendrils that extend from its back (any part past the neck), which can be retracted at will. Its tail is long and slender. Its skin is loose and iguana-like and smoke black, but has a slime that glistens in the surrounding starlight. The creature is more bony than it is muscular except for its jaws which can crush most things. The slime that it exudes is ‘antimatter slime’. It uses its tendril wings to slather the slime on objects too large for it to eat to break them down into more bite sized chunks. Not a mortal being, but not immortal either. Entropon is chaos. The result of the God of Destruction's inability to reproduce resulted in this abomination, which now walks the cosmos lusting for matter."
95,"Gygangoros, The Nightmare Leviathan - This semi-aquatic monstrosity features a head akin to a demonic and pissed off hornet adorning a menacing crest of twisting spines that extend around the head. It has a pair of powerful looking mandibles that lead to a mouth with multiple rows of jagged teeth as well as a hornet proboscis that it can shoot out to siphon all manner of life force from any given victim. Its body shape is vaguely centaur like, exchanging the horse body for that of a dragon. It is armored in thick bony plates covered by a lizardlike leathery skin. It does not have arms, but instead merely two sockets where scythe appendages extend out from. On its back, a multitude of strong grasping tentacles writhe about. It has a barbed tail with fin webbing. This creature is slightly intelligent and shares a common ancestor with the Aboleth, which are the only race that it doesn't prey upon. This entity preys out of sheer malice. It just 'enjoys watching the world burn'. It prefers to strike on stormy nights and during typhoons, and especially targets beings of peace. Coastal monk monasteries are a good example."
96,"Al Ecks Om, The Roiling Flesh - This being exists just outside the material plane and occupies spatial dimensions beyond the fourth. When a mortal happens to come upon its visage, it sees an almost incomprehensible sphere with ever shifting angles and boundaries. Within the sphere are vast amalgamations of muscle and bone, tissue and various organs as if looking at parts of a body from 100 different perspectives simultaneously. As the creature moves, a bystander would realize that the image they see is but a fraction of the total. The hundreds of perspectives are fixed, but the viewpoints move through the undulating tissue as cross sections of the whole, like so many colorful animated CT scans. Al Ecks Om wants to understand the nature of the space it comes into contact with, but it only has the most basic understanding of four dimensional space. Its only tool for understanding is the sensation it experiences in sliding its gargantuan form through the layers of spacetime, like a dog dragging its butt across the carpet to relieve an itch. It leaves behind a trail of madness and ooze covered tears in reality."
97,"Unit Designation 817:252, “Smother The Piteous Wails Of Those Who Wallow In Sin” - A predecessor-angel of the world before, which now exists only as shattered shells in the outer darkness. An obsolete model from an extinct reality. It is programmed to enforce moral commandments. The commandments it enforces are unknown, unknowable, native to an alien context. It kills those who will never know they have transgressed, and carries their souls to a far hell whose fires have long since burned out for want of stoking. The gods do not move against it. Perhaps it is nostalgia, or binding covenants not even they fully remember. Perhaps it was designed before the idea of cessation was invented. And so it goes about its cruel business, wielding a blade of strange angles, soaring on wings made of the substance which both light and matter were before the gods saw fit to differentiate them. It is swift. It is unerring. It is deadly."
98,"The Gardener of the Tree of Time - It lives at an end of the universe, when all that is splinters into galaxy-long knives and plunges into the nothingness beyond the void. This is but one end, one potential course for history to take. That dissatisfies the Gardener. It wants to exist in actuality, not merely in ever-shifting threads of possibility. It will use, is using, has used its great philosophical machines to fling pieces of itself back in time. These pieces are programmed with knowledge of all that has come before them. They disguise themselves as demons, spirits, gods, gathering cults and engaging in the careful shifting of events which will lead to their own circular return to create themselves. Their plans are incomprehensible on a human timescale. The fruit they bear may not come into bloom for millions of years. Sometimes they may even seem benevolent, but their end is abhorrent to all humanity."
99,"Perfectionist Amar-Amat - Humanity is weak, and ignorant, and foolish, but it has potential. Above the celestial spheres waits a community of star-things who patiently wait for us to reach that potential. There are a few who are tired of waiting. Amar-Amat is one of them. They descend on beams of discordant frequencies, sometimes when called by scientists and savants, sometimes according to a schedule only they know. On arrival Amar-Amat will set up a lab, and begin gathering test subjects. Acceleration of human development is a tricky thing. There are many failures, though even the failures are eventually made grateful for the Perfectionist’s blessing. The successes return to the stars with Amar-Amat, or else become their disciples on Earth, spreading the gospel of imminent perfection with their former fellows."
100,"The Dreaming Maw - A castle-sized crystal floats above the ground, every so often pulsing red. Its lower half gives way to a mess of tentacles, some hundreds of meters long, that twist and writhe ceaselessly. It moves slowly, inexorably, for reasons unknown, and as it does the lands near it warp; first gaining a slimy texture, then sprouting tentacles, eyes, mouths, arms, then becoming those things until there is no trace of nature in them, only squirming fields of flesh. From these places sometimes life emerges, but not as life known to Men. Floating orbs of flesh and eyes, nearly normal creatures with grotesquely large features, fragments of stone from which sprout tentacles, and many other forms which cannot escape and fall back into the warped earth before presumably being destroyed. Those that do leave to other lands, in search of something perhaps, but inevitably bringing fear and doom. Below the crystal, an abyss lies, a hole with no end, save perhaps in a stranger place, where those given life by the Maw might call home. It follows the gem, the tentacled land before it giving way and closing behind. Perhaps it rose from the plane beyond the hole, before the world had felt its presense."

d100,Entry

1,"This villain tries to remain hidden from the players and does all of their evil work through third parties. The villain never wants their identity known, perhaps because they are someone who is close to the players."
2,"This villain is cruel and brutal, and likes to show the players just how powerful they are with vulgar displays of violence."
3,"This villain is cold and calculating. They always have a backup plan for every scenario, and are always 3 steps ahead of everyone else. They are considered an 'evil genius'."
4,"This villain is 100% convinced that THEY are the good guy, and the players are in the wrong. Nothing anyone can do can show them otherwise."
5,This villain does not have long to live and they know it. They have some sort of disease that is slowly eating away at them. They are trying to conduct their evil master plan before they succumb to the disease.
6,This villain fiends for power and will do whatever it takes to obtain it by augmenting and affixing objects and creatures of power to itself.
7,This villain hears a cacophony of voices and is deeply devout to their 'divine' whims and therefore they can appear erratic.
8,"This villain is scarred, wiry, and resolute. They believe strength is found through suffering and seek to strengthen their community whether they like it or not."
9,"The villain is a glutton, and is always seen either with some food or drink on their person. This food is either decadent, expensive, or taboo, or a mixture of the three."
10,"This villain lives for the cheese. They monologue, toy with their foes, and treat the whole experience as a game. However, should the heroes ruin their fun, they'll take their job MUCH more seriously and destroy the heroes lives."
11,"This villain has a remarkable scar, mutation or other noteworthy feature that feels unnatural."
12,This villain is obsessed with perfection. They don't have a scar on their body due to constant magical healing. It's unnatural.
13,"This villain is obsessed with nature. They dress like a druid, and fashion their house and home in nature-themed décor."
14,This villain is strangely superstitious. They will throw away entire plans simply because of a small belief or superstition.
15,"This villain is strangely nice, and treats their employees with the utmost respect."
16,This villain demands utter loyalty from their minions. Anything less results in death.
17,"This villain is lustful, and surrounds themselves with concubines. These concubines can be hostages or bodyguards."
18,This villain is obsessed with gold. Everything they own is coated in some precious metal.
19,"This villain envies those who are more competent than itself, and seeks to sabotage them."
20,"The villain believes they are born of a god, and that their divine parents will recognize them and unveil their currently-hidden divine nature once they have proven their worth."
21,"The villain craves the respect, even friendship, of great heroes. Not enough to quit being villainous, but still tries to make the confrontations as genial as possible."
22,"The villain is acting under duress, compelled to do the villainous bidding of another hidden villain because of some desperate need, beloved hostage, etc."
23,"The villain has a great taste for music, is accompanied by minstrels and will be very loath to harm any talented musician."
24,"The villain is secretly working for some greater good, hoping by their deeds to find, trap, and destroy other villains."
25,The villain is motivated by undying vengefulness over a severe long-ago harm.
26,The villain desires to morally corrupt their opponents more than they desire any tangible gain.
27,"The villain suffers pangs of conscience and may, under the right circumstance, be moved to repentance."
28,"The villain is oddly stingy, reluctant to spend even relatively small amounts of their great resources."
29,"The villain hates a different major villain above all and may ally with heroes against them, or use them as pawns against them."
30,"The villain is a disguised impostor, having replaced the actual creator of the villainous organization."
31,The villain wants to retire and is seeking or grooming a successor.
32,"The villain is proud of their own talents in some type of art (fine art, performance, whatever) and appreciates (or demands) flattery."
33,The villain is terrified of betrayal from their underlings.
34,The villain treats it all as a game. They don’t take anything too seriously.
35,The villain is a gentleman and always shows decency and consideration. They offer a handkerchief to a fallen foe.
36,The villain’s shadow is slightly independent and desynced with his body.
37,The villain finds killing their enemies distasteful and prefers to petrify them to restore them after their goal is accomplished.
38,"The villain has a surprising hobby, like coin collecting or pottery."
39,"The villain finds it incredibly cathartic to break society, a person's life, or the economy as if they were the contents of a rage room."
40,The villain has scouts that look for up-and-coming talent (both challenges and recruits).
41,"The villain wants to reset society because they feel the world feels too explored, too claustrophobic."
42,The villain never works off the clock.
43,"This villain shows kindness and compassion to a very unremarkable specific being, while being dismissive and cruel to everything else. The reason is quite surprising why they care so much about it."
44,The villain is obsessed with a hobby completely unrelated to their villainous goals.
45,"The villain suffers from sudden intense pain. While being logical and level headed on time, he bursts out in pain and acts illogically and seems unrecognizable at best."
46,"The villain acts in the interest of a loved one: Spouse, daughter, friend. They want to do anything to help or support this person, even despite this person's protest."
47,The villain was a leader of a successful rebellion / activists group and is now disgruntled that most of his former followers are not following his new way.
48,"The villain is acting childish and naive, reacting with temper tantrums to mistakes and failures. They also overspend their resources massively for simple tasks."
49,"The villain is the successor of an even greater villain and is now torn between a more moderate way and the old, simple and sometimes more effective cruel way."
50,The villain is barely clinging to life. Old age and battle damage has left them closer to death than they will admit. Battles will be magical or proxy based.
51,"The villain is thin to the point of emaciation. They are, willingly or not, starting to resemble a Lich."
52,The villain was wronged early in the party's adventure. Now they must save the world from you.
53,"The villain is a patsy. Trying to affect change, but being kept in line by otherworldly forces or a curse."
54,The villain is convinced that a near-worthless magic item is a powerful artifact because that's how they came to power. They actually came to power gathering what they thought they needed to unlock it.
55,The villain has secretly replaced the rightful ruler of the realm or the villain is somehow controlling the rightful ruler.
56,"The villain is a (fallen, expelled) member of a group whose original purpose was to protect the realm."
57,"The villain is obsessed with (destroying, enslaving) their own kind."
58,The villain is terrified of something common or seemingly harmless. (Ex: Imhotep's fear of cats in 'The Mummy')
59,The villain has a set of rules that they will not break for any reason.
60,The villain is part of a people that ruled the world long ago. They are obsessed with bringing their people back to prominence and power.
61,The villain was banished from another dimension. They seem to be lacking in knowledge of the world they are currently in.
62,"The villain is obsessed with a motif. Their stronghold, temples, armor, equipment, minions, names resemble this motif."
63,"This villain treats the world as their experimental subjects, seeking ever greater knowledge without regard for morality."
64,"This villain keenly mourns the loss of a dear loved one, and all of their villainous actions are directed toward the goal of memorializing that person."
65,"This villain believes in the purity of the hunt, and thinks of the world purely through the lens of 'predators and prey.'"
66,"This villain has been asleep for a long, long time, and the psychic pull of their dreams has begun to attract followers to them."
67,"This villain once held a position of power, but society changed, and now they desperately want to go back to 'the way things were.'"
68,"The villain loves music. All of their triumphs are scored, and they hire wandering bards to follow the party and perform them."
69,"The villain is unhappily married. Much of what you attributed to malice and cunning on their part is actually some very messy, retaliatory, and petty divorce proceedings."
70,"The villain is happily married, you're actually facing an evil power-couple."
71,"The villain is passionate about a particular culinary experience - fine food, a particular favorite drink or vice, and will go far out of their way to indulge in their delights."
72,"The villain seems to have 2 distinct personalities, but when the party imposes themselves between her and the Doom Switch, her identical twin appears behind them."
73,"The villain has died and been reborn many times, he genuinely doesn't understand why there would be a fuss over a few more deaths."
74,"The villain didn't want any of this. Once their organization grew past a certain size, it got out of their control."
75,The villain believes completely in a prophecy. Everything that they have done is to build up an army capable of fighting a greater threat to the world.
76,"The villain has spent most of their life training and battling to become more powerful. Now they are just bored, because nothing is a challenge anymore. They are desperately seeking a worthy foe."
77,"The villain keeps turning up somewhere else after the PCs kill them. The villain is actually 4 identical quadruplets. When one dies, one of the others takes up the mantle and takes control of the (army, horde, gang)."
78,The villain is not the true villain. They are actually just some poor explorer that picked up a cursed artifact. They are basically being used like a puppet by the artifact.
79,The villain is someone who is down on their luck. Whatever business or trade they work at is not paying the bills. They know what they are doing is wrong. They only rob those who can afford it and they try to avoid killing whenever possible.
80,"The villain gained power by performing a ritual to capture a greater being and steal its power. Recently, whatever they used for a prison is starting to crack."
81,"The villain obeys the law. The villain is very familiar with the laws of the realm and every villainous act they commit is technically within the bounds of the laws of the realm. They may stretch the law, they may bend the law, but they are always just short of breaking the law. They also tend to twist the law to turn law enforcement against their foes."
82,The villain is obsessed with destroying the current world so they can start over. They want to remake the world into a better place. To that end they have to get rid of the old to make room for the new.
83,The villain is very mercenary. It's all about the money. This villain can actually be bribed to stop or switch sides.
84,"The villain has a favorite weapon. To kill or even harm something using another method would be dishonorable. At the same time, they deeply respect anyone that has survived their weapon's onslaught and carries its scars."
85,"The villain appears to be small or weak, however their tactics make them difficult to fight."
86,"The villain is a big dumb brute. They are incredibly strong and tough, however they can be easily tricked."
87,The villain is very flamboyant and can't resist the opportunity to showboat.
88,"The villain is a member of a larger organization. If the villain is defeated, the organization will send another villain. Each subsequent villain will be one level higher in the organization and will be more dangerous than the previous villain."
89,Most of the villain's power is sealed away. Each seal they manage to break will give them an increase in power.
90,"The villain seems to have incredible power, however they are bound by certain constraints that prevent them from just annihilating the PCs."
91,The villains power waxes and wanes. This cycle is predictable once the PCs learn about it. When the villains power wanes they try to keep a low profile.
92,"This villain can't stand ignorance from anyone, and take ample time out of the day to explain things to those who demonstrate offensive levels of idiocy. This villain gives seminars to underlings, monologues on the party's failures while beating them up, and can even sometimes be found in deep conversation with some of the greatest minds of the modern age to reduce their own ignorance."
93,"Rather curiously, this villain seems to pull their punches. That's because the villain occupies a 'cosmic role', which uncontrollably compels them to carry out certain goals and engage in certain behaviors. The villain knows that after their demise, the universe will force someone else into that role... someone potentially much worse than they."
94,"This villain acts incredibly world-weary, to the point that they take no personal offense from opposition and barely seem upset by setbacks."
95,"This villain can't understand why anyone would oppose their goals, and is genuinely confused by the players' motives."
96,"This villain has a beloved pet that they bring along in any situation, even when it would be risky to do so."
97,"This villain, having lost his own family in a terrible incident, feels terrible remorse for orphans and will openly destroy any of its minions that intentionally or unintentionally created an orphan. Oddly, if the minion killed the child along with the parents, that's ok. But leaving an orphan brings a great welling of empathy from the villain, which makes him emotionally unstable."
98,The villain collects art. Loves paintings & sculptures and splits its energy between the study and collection of art to its other villainous pursuits. It's easily distracted by the topic and might even spare the life of an accomplished artist.
99,"This villain is mentally aging backwards. Physically, it's staying the same, but over the course of 20 years is going from a mature, reasonable adult ego to a more and more childlike emotional age. It's trying to prevent this at all costs, but as its mind reverse ages the unpredictability and lack of longer term planning keep getting worse."
100,"This villain is an empty conduit for a demonic portal. It's essentially a diving suit that is used by demons from the abyss. Depending on the demon that is taking it for a drive that day it might have completely different priorities and obsessions or goals. No matter which demon is in the driver's seat though, it is always an agent of chaos and strife, cruel and sadistic to all around, only sparing those that can be of some short term use to the current controller, which might not be useful when the rent-a-planar-body-ride switches hands again."

d100,Entry

1,"Absorbing: The weapon has 4 charges. When you are hit by an attack while wielding this weapon, you may expend 1 charge and use your reaction to reduce the incoming damage by 1d12. This property is suppressed while you are incapacitated, restrained, or otherwise unable to move. The weapon regains 1d4 charges at dawn."
2,"Alarm: The weapon starts to emanates the sound of a bell when a fiend, aberration, fey, undead, dragon, or elemental gets within 30 feet of it."
3,Aquatic: Allows the wielder to breathe underwater and suffers no penalty to attacks in water
4,Assassin: You deal extra damage with this weapon if you surprise the opponent.
5,"Banishing: Upon a successful hit, this weapon has a chance to banish dimensional & summoned beings & creatures."
6,"Blinding: X times per long rest, this weapon emits a bright light, causing blindness on a successful hit."
7,"Blood Frenzy: After the weapon is used to kill 5 creatures, it grants a +2 to hit. After the weapon is used to kill 10 creatures it grants +1 extra attack. Bonuses last 10 turns. Killing another creature within the time limit resets the timer."
8,"Blood Hound: Upon successful hit, the wielder of this weapon will know the distance & direction of the target for the next 'x' hours."
9,"Boreal: If laid on the ground the weapon will turn to point North. Also, if used to 'attack' the air it can increase or decrease local windspeed by 1 mph for every HP of damage it would have dealt. This doesn't work if there couldn't naturally be wind in the area (e.g. in most dungeons)."
10,"Breaching: If weapon is used on a door, portcullis, or gate, the objects AC and Damage Threshold are reduced by 'x'. This reduction only applies to attacks from the 'breaching weapon' and does not stack from multiple attacks."
11,"Breaker: On a successful Critical Hit Attack Roll, the weapon breaks a bone in the target."
12,"Breath Stealing: 1d3 times per day, a magic using humanoid struck by this weapon has a 20% chance of spell failure (plus an additional 1% for every 5 points of damage dealt) casting any spell with a verbal component, for the next 1d3 turns. CON save DC 12+Proficiency Bonus negates this effect, the victim may save against this effect at the end of each of their turns."
13,"Camouflage: When wielding this weapon, you can say a command word to transform this weapon into a small, mundane dagger. This is useful for hiding your weapon on your person."
14,Cavalry’s Choice: This weapon is best used on horseback. Gain advantage when riding a mount and disadvantage without one.
15,"Celestial: Your weapon sparkles with the light of the heavens. When this weapon is equipped, you can commune with Celestial beings."
16,"Chop: Once every three combat rounds, your weapon does double damage if it wounds the foe."
17,Cleaving: Double damage when used against inanimate objects.
18,"Communication: Once per day, you can cast Tongues when wielding this weapon."
19,Confessor: Wounds dealt by the weapon become bloody mouths that announce things their bearer is guilty about or ashamed of.
20,"Consecrating: The corpses of those struck cannot rise from the grave as any malevolent undead, such as shadows, zombies, or vampire spawn."
21,"Consuming: As an action, up to 1d6 times per day, suck a total of 1d6 hitpoints from one or more willing allies within 30 feet of you; gain advantage on your next melee attack; on a hit, you deal an additional amount of damage equal to twice that number as acid damage (DC 12+Proficiency Bonus Reflex save, for half)"
22,"Corpse Destroyer: Upon a successful hit, the corpse of the target will dissolve into dust when they get killed."
23,"Corrosive: This weapon oozes acid, dealing 1d6 extra acid damage on a hit."
24,Defender: The weapon has an extra +2 bonus when parrying attacks made against another.
25,"Defensive: Once per day, as an immediate action, if a melee attack against the player would hit, the attacker must reroll and take the lowest result instead."
26,"Demiplane: The weapon contains a demiplane within it (a 30ft x 30ft x 30ft space). Once per day, the wielder (and one willing creature that they are touching) can teleport into this demiplane. Unlike a standard demiplane, this one has a door, allowing those inside to leave at any time. While inside the demiplane the weapon drops to the ground at the point where the wielder was standing. When exiting creatures appear in the closest adjacent open space to the weapon."
27,"Desiccating: The weapon sucks the water out of the target. Bonus 1d6 necrotic damage. On a critical hit, it also causes one level of exhaustion. Causes an extra 1d6 necrotic damage to plant or water based creatures."
28,"Diminution: When you make a successful attack with this weapon on a creature that is Large or Medium, you reduce their size to Medium or Small respectively. 1/Long Rest."
29,"Distraction: Once per short rest, the weapon can create a trailing blur which confuses an adversary, allowing the wielder Advantage on one attack roll."
30,Divine: This weapon can be commanded to glow. The weapon emits 30 ft. of bright light. Infernal creatures and undead suffer the effect of the 'bane' spell when exposed to this light.
31,"Dragging: 1d4 times per day, gain the ability to cast Thorn Whip using the weapon, at first level."
32,"Ender: When a target is slain by this weapon, it's body and soul are destroyed. Creatures cannot be resurrected, reincarnated, or rejuvenated."
33,"Erratic: Before rolling damage on a successful hit, the player may choose to flip a coin. On heads, the weapon does its maximum damage, on tails, it does its minimum damage."
34,"Favored (Enemy / Prey): When fighting X, the weapon has a +2 to hit and does and extra 1d6 damage."
35,Flaming: Your weapon catches fire and deals 1d4 fire damage on a successful attack roll.
36,"Force: On a successful Critical Hit Attack Roll, the weapon knocks the target away 5 feet in whatever direction the wielder determines."
37,Frost: This weapon appears to be frozen. It deals an extra 1d6 cold damage on a hit.
38,"Ghost Light: This weapon can be commanded to glow. The weapon emits 30 ft. of ghostly, dim light. Invisible and ethereal (creatures, objects) exposed to this light become translucent but visible."
39,Goliath Killer: This weapon deals 1d6 bonus damage to a targeted creature if they’re bigger than the wielder.
40,"Gorgon: One time per long rest, on a successful hit with the weapon, the wielder may cast flesh to stone."
41,"Guide: If you throw this weapon in the air, it will always point North when it lands. This is useful for tracking your location, providing you with a +2 to ability checks made to avoid getting lost."
42,Handling: This weapon ‘glues’ itself to your hand. You can never be disarmed while using this weapon.
43,Harpoon: The weapon can be thrown up to 60ft creating a magic cord between wielder and target. The wielder can spend an action to make a STR check to pull the target 25ft directly towards them. The wielder can also spend an action to pull themselves 25ft towards the target.
44,"Head Hunter: On a natural 20, the weapon beheads the target if they are lower than half health."
45,"Healing: While causing damage to your opponent, your damaging strike also has a 50% chance of healing you for 1d4 damage."
46,Holy: You gain Protection from Evil while wielding.
47,"Homing: When separated from the weapon, the owner will have a sense of where it is."
48,"Icing: Three times per long rest, the wielder may strike a solid surface coating it with ice. Effect similar to 'grease' spell."
49,"Illusory Strikes: 'x' times per long rest, the weapon generates multiple illusions of attacks when the wielder makes a real attack. They seem to be different types of strikes (high, low, downward, thrust, etc). Effect reduces targets AC from (dex or fighting skills) for the strike."
50,Incorruptible: The blade is self-cleaning and self-sharpening. It is immune to rust monsters and dispel magic.
51,"Indestructible: No matter how much damage this weapon endures, it will always reform within 12 hours."
52,"Inebriating: On a successful critical hit, the weapon inflicts drunkenness on the target."
53,Inspiring: Three times per day the wielder may cast bless on any allies within range.
54,"Insulated: If the striking surface of the weapon is exposed to (cold, heat, electricity, eldritch power), the energy doesn't transfer to the grip, haft, or wielder."
55,"Intimidation: While this weapon is equipped, your voice becomes deeper and booming. Once per short rest, you can use Intimidation with advantage."
56,Inverse Edge: The weapon treats hard things as if they were soft and soft things as if they were hard.
57,"Last Stand: If the wielder is reduced to 10 hp or 20% of their total hp, whichever is lower. The weapon grants advantage on to hit rolls and 1 extra attack. Effect last until the wielder is out of immediate danger."
58,"Leaping: With the weapon drawn, the wielder can cast jump at will."
59,"Loyal: The weapon won't let itself be stolen, inflicting 1 hp damage per round it's carried, or 2 hp per round on anyone but its owner trying to use it. If its owner dies, it will mourn for d12 months, treating everyone as a thief in the meantime. Anyone who kills a past owner will be regarded as a thief forever."
60,"Marching: 1d3 times per day, as a free action, the wielder may add 10 feet to their normal movement speed for 1d6 consecutive rounds."
61,"Melodic: Used by city guards to avoid disturbing the populace. Magic combined with holes drilled into the weapon manipulates the air as it as swung, creating enchanted music which disguises the sounds of combat as a boisterous night at the tavern."
62,"Missile Deflecting: Three times per long rest, the wielder may spend a reaction to reduce the damage from a projectile by 1d10 + Dex mod."
63,Morality: You can cast Detect Good and Evil up to 3 times a day while holding this weapon.
64,"Necromancer: Two times per long rest, a creature slain by this weapon can be raised as a zombie controlled by the wielder for 6 hours."
65,"Never Lost: Once attuned the wielder can sense the presence of the weapon if it is within 1 mile. Wielder knows the distance and direction of the weapon. If the weapon is moving, the wielder knows what direction it is moving and how fast it is moving."
66,"Paralyzing: Once per long rest, this weapon can inflict paralysis on a successful hit."
67,"Parting: The wielder can take a reaction to part an area effect attack. The wielder makes a save vs the attack. On a successful save it creates a 5ft wide corridor in the area of effect where it has no effect. Any (creatures, items) in this corridor unaffected by the power of the area of effect."
68,Precise: This weapon scores a critical hit on a natural 19 or 20.
69,"Primed Possession: The next creature killed by this weapon has their soul trapped within the blade. The wielder can communicate with their soul, if the soul is willing to speak."
70,"Reach: 3 times per day, you can double the range of this weapon."
71,"Reactive: The weapon has 4 charges. When you are hit by an attack while wielding this weapon, you may expend 1 charge and use your reaction to impose disadvantage on the attack. This property is suppressed while you are incapacitated, restrained, or otherwise unable to move. The weapon regains 1d4 charges at dawn."
72,Reflection Biter: Attacking a target's reflection with the weapon causes damage (as if you actually hit the target).
73,"Reliable: Before rolling damage on a successful hit, the player may choose to use the average roll for the damage die."
74,"Reverberation: On a successful Critical Hit Attack Roll, the weapon creates a resonating hum that breaks concentration within a 60 foot sphere centered on the wielder."
75,"Self Cleaning: Any dirt, grime, or blood just falls off, dissolves, or is burned away. Unless submersed in it, any damaging substance affecting the weapon or wielder has it's duration reduced to 1 turn."
76,Shadow Biter: Attacking a target's shadow with the weapon causes damage (as if you actually hit the target).
77,"Shadow Weapon: The weapon is visible as shadow in bright light, but almost invisible in dim lighting."
78,"Shattering: On a critical hit, this weapon breaks beyond repair and does max damage."
79,"Shrink: On a command word, the weapon can magically shrink so that you can wear it as an item of jewelry and vice versa."
80,Size Conforming: The weapon changes size based on the wielders size. It will become the ideal size to wield even if the wielders size is suddenly altered by magic.
81,"Sovereign Among Weapons: Mundane weapons of the same type (e.g. spear-spear, dagger-dagger, mace-mace, etc.) refuse to be wielded against the magic weapon's bearer."
82,"Spell Loader: The weapon can absorb one touch spell that is cast upon it. It cannot absorb another spell until the first one is discharged. On a successful hit, the wielder can choose to discharge the stored spell on the target."
83,"Spirit Binding: Two times per long rest, a creature slain by the weapon can be raised as a ghost controlled by the wielder."
84,"Spirit Weapon: The weapon passes through non-magical materials as if it was ethereal. It ignores AC from non-magical armor. It can only damage living beings and spirits, it is unable to damage inanimate objects."
85,"Stalwart: 2d3 times per day, gain advantage on your next melee weapon attack with this weapon, when adjacent to two or more enemies of your size or larger, while being more than 30 feet away from your nearest ally; on a hit, add 1 additional point of damage per enemy you are adjacent to, or instead, choose to gain 1d4 temporary hit points until the end of your next turn."
86,"Storm: the weapon does an additional 1d6 lightning damage on a successful attack, and does 2d6 on a critical hit."
87,"Strength Draining: Two times per long rest, the weapon can drain 1d4 strength upon a successful hit. Strength recovers at 1 per 10 minutes."
88,"Summonable: Once attuned the wielder can summon the weapon to their hand, if it is within 'x' ft. of the wielder."
89,"Summoning: If you take cold damage while wielding this weapon, as a reaction you can summon an ice mephit to aid you. 3/Long Rest."
90,"Sunder: On a successful Critical Hit Attack Roll, the weapon breaks the opponent's weapon or shield (DM choice)."
91,"Susceptibility: When you make a successful attack with this weapon on a creature, it becomes vulnerable to a random damage type until the end of its next turn."
92,Swordcatcher: Gain advantage on checks made to disarm opponents in combat.
93,"Thief Ward: If a creature handles the weapon without the wielders permission, the weapon causes 1pt of lightning damage per turn until the weapon is dropped. Note: If the wielder willingly places the weapon upon a creature, that counts as granting permission."
94,"Training: Made to help beginners learn to fight, the weapon nudges the wielders' motions toward better technique. Double experience earned from fights using it."
95,"Translation: Once per short rest, the weapon holder can comprehend and speak a single foreign language for 60 seconds."
96,Twin: On a command word the weapon duplicates itself (for two-weapon fighting or one can be thrown). Only two can exist at the same time and it can be returned to a single weapon with a separate command word.
97,"Veiling: With the weapon drawn, the wielder is invisible to undead."
98,"Vengeance: If its bearer is killed while holding it, the weapon will animate and attempt to slay their bearer's killer."
99,"Vengeful: If the wielder is hit by an attack, then on the next turn the wielder gains advantage to hit the (creature, opponent) that hit them."
100,"Weightless: Once attuned, this weapon is effectively weightless to the wielder. May be used as a finesse weapon regardless of size."

d100,Entry

1,Daggerfall: It rains daggers dealing 1d4 damage / round people are out unprotected.
2,"Raven Mists: An enormous bank of peasoup-thick mist rolls in and settles. In the thickest part, it causes a choking cough, but the players can push through as long as they can hold their breath."
3,Counterspell Damp: An invisible dampness in the air that reduces the effects of magical spells (ranges shortened or stopped altogether).
4,"Psychic storm: Random voices can be heard everywhere, whispering horrible things into people's ears. People out in it too long may go temporarily insane."
5,"anna from heaven: Hail that is actually just edible food. Small, dense, hard nuggets of sustenance that can be crushed into water or sucked on like a candy. Doesn't have a strong taste, but collecting a pound will provide a single meal ration."
6,Acid Rain: Literal acid rain.
7,Peacemaker Aurora: Aurora that has the calm emotions spell effect to those nearby
8,Watertaker: A tornado that targets nearby water sources and drains them
9,"Elemental Spawning: Each drop of water is an incredibly tiny young water elemental. They begin to crawl to the nearest body of water, forming a huge wave knocking over anything in its wake. As they fall, they may try to swarm the party. No damage will be taken, but those plagued by the minuscule elementals will appear to be covered in a layer of water."
10,"Fool's Gold Dusting: A dust storm of gold dust, but bottling or capturing it makes it dissolve."
11,"Woodsprout: A lightning storm that strikes wooden objects, making them sprout shoots that grow rapidly in random directions"
12,"Planar Corruption: Tiny portals start appearing everywhere, dropping critters from other planes."
13,"Hellmouth: Dark clouds suddenly appear in the sky. Lightning strikes between them, instantaneously making terrifying monster shapes stand out from the flashes. Nothing ever actually happens, though."
14,"Cats and Dogs: It rains cats and dogs. They do take damage, though, and most die. Some are under the effects of feather fall."
15,"Slow lightning. It only travels at walking pace, but is very persistent."
16,"Djinni Feud: On closer inspection, the storm is in fact two gangs of djinni locked in a bitter feud. To those who can understand their language, they make wildly generous offers to join their side - but can they be trusted?"
17,Judas' mark: Everyone in the party is wreathed with St Elmo’s fire - except one.
18,Ultrachthonian Downpour: Rain so heavy you glimpse tentacled horrors within it.
19,"Ion storm: A lightning storm that lasts for more than a day. The air in the area becomes so ionized, that metallic objects randomly release sparkles and small lightning bolts."
20,Skeletal sleet: Skulls and ground up bone powder fall to the ground
21,Wild Hunt: Snaky bolts of magic dart parallel to the ground. Those struck become afflicted with a persistent Hunter's Mark. Most people and wildlife caught outside tends to be marked.
22,"Upside-down rain: Puddles form on the ground. Then the puddles then become rain falling upwards, until the puddles are exhausted and the ground is dry."
23,"Fishnado: It’s raining fish. The fish start small and harmless, but gradually become more bothersome (electric eels, puffer fish, sharks) and followed by massive and outright mythical creatures."
24,Cometfall: Magic Missiles rain down causing 1d4 force damage
25,"Olympus passing: A storm appears and the clouds rend, revealing Olympus. This becomes a gate to that upper plane. The storm stays in the area for 3d4 hours."
26,Marimo drop: Glowing moss falls from a clear sky. They can be collected and put into globes to be used as a light source similar to Continual Light.
27,Rain of Blood: Classic rain of blood. \m/
28,Rain of Fire: Classic rain of fire from a typhoon of magic magma.
29,"Sandcloud: Sandstorm, but it falls from clouds of traveling sand rather than blown from the ground as usual."
30,"Hitchcock's Omen: A 'storm' of migrating birds passes through. Small birds flood around you, run into you, and occasionally claw at you. It 'rains' feathers and birdpoop."
31,Darkmarch: An enormous column of traveling darkness rolls in and passes through for several days. Sounds like thunder or marching emanate softly from within.
32,"Celestial Passing: A huge cloudbank of scintillating puffy clouds blows overhead. They give off thunder-like booms but no lightning, only sprays of light. It rains holy water, accompanied by copious rainbows. Sometimes celestial feathers fall."
33,Pixie weather: It rains beautiful bubbles. A faint laughter of pixies can be heard as they pop.
34,"Arcane rain: It rains paper in strange languages with unknown diagrams, runes, markings. It also rains droplets of various colors of ink. Most pages are quickly blotted out by the ink, but collecting 200 or so may be enough to decipher a secret. Collecting in the middle of the storm is better, but anyone showered upon risks gaining a temporary form of madness, is temporaily polymorphed, or otherwise affected by some other unpredictable effect. The ink is useless when mixed together but usable as expensive fine ink if individual droplets are collected and mixed with like kin. Articles of clothing left outdoors become tie-dyed."
35,Bloodsucker Swarm: Fell winds blow in bothersome biting creatures from a far away land. You can't sleep soundly unless you find a way to keep the biters off.
36,"Negative Thunderstorm - Skies darken. Waves of purple energy crackle across the sky and all color seems to fade. There is a shrill screaming noise, that gets louder and louder for several seconds until a blast of supernatural darkness shoots up from the ground. Creatures struck take negative/necrotic damage and are silenced for a while. Creatures killed by this rise as undead 2d6 hours later."
37,Flowerfall: A cloud of beautiful delicate petals makes a rain that blankets the surroundings. The storm has a nastier cousin: the pollen cloud.
38,"Gelatinous rain: A gelatinous cube rains down over a certain region, and will form into its cube shape in some time if not dealt with."
39,Rain of distrust: Long exposure will make the party fight itself for 1d6 turns.
40,Cackling thunder: The skies let loose a maniacal laugh that frightens all beings that are outdoors on a failed will save
41,Rain of animal growth: Any animal caught in the rain will grow by a 1d4 growth modifier.
42,"Doppelganger Rain: The party caught in this weird rain is forced to fight a doppelganger of themselves. The duplicates disappear when the rain ends, so running is an option."
43,"Furnace Snow: Snow that is unusually hot, and burns people."
44,"Golden shower: It rains little bits of gold, a few put together can equal a gold."
45,"Apathy Rain: Textureless, grey clouds begin to form, stretching further and further across the sky until they touch the horizon in every direction. The air becomes damp, and soon a light drizzle begins to sweep across the land. An observant onlooker may eventually notice that the rain seems as gray as the sky it fell from, and that bodies of water become unnaturally opaque as they are rained on. There is no imminent danger from being exposed to the light shower, but as time goes on, people who are exposed to the drizzle gradually become increasingly apathetic and weary. Being exposed to the rain for a half hour induces feelings of mild tiredness and lazy irritability, while being exposed from 1 to 2 hours leaves a victim uninterested in most stimulation, and unmotivated to do any for of physical activity, even moving. Being exposed for any amount of time longer than 2 hours leaves a person without the will move out of the rain, and with a fading will to live. Exposure to the rain for 4 hours or more will put the victim into a deep coma that requires magical healing to fix, and after 6 hours of exposure, the victim dies as their heartbeat slowly grinds to a halt."
46,"Dancers Rain: White clouds billow unnaturally as what was before a gentle breeze begins turns to sharp gusts. Within minutes it looks like there is a bulging mountain range in the sky, small cloud-puffs reach towards the ground and are tossed back, and strands of cloud are molded it into chaotic patterns and designs. At the storm's zenith, the cloud wisps touch the ground and resemble dancing humanoids whipping the wind around them. Those that stand within the clouds that touch the surface can hear joyful, rambunctious laughter in the howls of the wind, as though the spirits of the storm are inviting them out to play."
47,"Ascetic's boon: Really nasty sleet, but someone who exposes themselves and withstands the bitterness of the whole storm finds all their weapons, clothing, and armor granted a temporary +1 buff."
48,"Ghost rain: It's raining, but the rain seems to pass right through everything. Careful inspection reveals the rain is splashing against and forming puddles on surfaces that don't exist. It turns out the rain is falling in a parallel plane, or is a memory from the past falling on the land as it was long ago."
49,"Scentwind: A whole bunch of odd smells are blown in on the breeze. Each gust of wind changes the smell entirely. One moment you smell strawberries and creme, then iodine, then fresh bread, then decaying leaves."
50,"Drunken Deluge: It rains mild alcohol. Staying out too long will get you buzzed from the vapor alone. Wild animals become incorrigibly drunk, even the magic ones."
51,Cleansing rain: the rain cleans the clothes of those in it.
52,"Radiant Light: Bright yellowy white clouds cover the sky. They emit a powerful light, dealing radiant damage per round to whoever is standing unprotected outside."
53,"Oven bubbles: Bubbles of superheated air form. Plant life and untreated wood may spontaneously combust. The bubbles are difficult to spot, and are best spotted by looking for the heat distortions of objects behind them."
54,"Underground blizzard: Interior spaces, underground passages, and caves frost over and a light snow falls inside."
55,Friendly breeze: The air causes people to be friendly to one another as if charmed. People must roll wisdom saves to not hug each other in the streets.
56,Blood Flood: All the blood of the dead crawls from the ground and runs in rivulets towards a pooling location.
57,"Night Plague: Dark clouds cover the sky completely blocking any light from the Sun, the Moon or the stars. Night monsters react appropriately."
58,Out-of-season Autumn: Leaves all fall from their trees regardless of the season and fill the sky with an obscuring field of leaves making flight all but impossible.
59,"Cyclopes Workshop: A seemingly typical thunderstorm, but each roll of thunder is accompaniment by the silhouette of a mighty creature striking a great anvil behind the clouds."
60,"Minegas Mists: A bank of flammable mist settles over the land, igniting the mist burns off a clearing 50ft across."
61,"Blood Moon: The sky turns a deep red, and 2D6 undead rise from the ground. This involves skeletons, minotaur skeletons, crawling claws, zombies, orc zombies, and beholder zombies."
62,"Blobdrop: Raindrops from the storm fall short of the ground, instead forming large amorphous blobs of water, they are burst easily."
63,"Antigravity storm: A red cloud lightning storm with pink bolts. Wherever lightning strikes, be it earth, a tree, or building, the object or area begins hovering and slowly rises up towards the sky. This effect lasts for 1h, after which all the objects slowly descend."
64,"Seedstrike: Seeds fall from the sky, although they do no harm, each that strikes the bare earth makes a might twump, and a fruit tree rises from the ground."
65,War Cumulus: Clouds arrange themselves into imitations of a battle below. After the battle the sky turns a dusky red.
66,Ray-nbow: A local rainbow fires random ray spells in the surrounding area.
67,Thunderclap storm: Severe thunderstorm. Each round roll a D10 on a 10 all players must roll a con saving throw. On failure 1d6 thunder damage.
68,"Seasonal dysphoria: The weather changes each round between unbearable heat, snow, wind, and rain."
69,Healing potion rain: The sky grows a calming light green. The rain heals at least 1hp per round. Does not effect undead or constructs.
70,"Water repellent rain: After the first few drops land on anything, any further drops (of any liquid) are hydrophobically repelled for 1d10 hours. This includes blood the character might spill (minor cuts could become major wounds for example) or anything the character tries to drink."
71,"Summon water rain: Every water droplet is a small puddle. When the droplet lands, instead of a small 'splt' you would expect, it 'splooshes' into an entire puddle. Tends to lead to massive flooding."
72,Locust Plague: A swarm of locusts of biblical proportions fills the skies.
73,"Fog of the Trees: this fog gets you so high that while in it you and everyone else inside forgets who they are. Good times are had, munchies galore."
74,"Glass Storm: a sandstorm that is so hot, instead of sand, glass is blown around."
75,"Spark showers: instead of water, sparks rain down. Instead of lightning there is either a downward fire spout which never reaches the ground, or bursts of magma. 'looks like God is welding again'"
76,"Illusion mist: every creature breathing in it will see other people/creatures , an intelligence or perception check is required to realize if something is an illusion."
77,"Bolt drizzle: Instead of raining water, it rains electricity- but it looks just like falling rain, it's just little droplets of electricity that steaks down from the sky. Not innately harmful."
78,"Wildcolor Haboob: A blowing wind that changes color of everything it hits - permanently or otherwise. This includes water, skin, hair, clothing, items, etc. The color change is incredibly quick and it cycles through many colors as the wind blows."
79,Chaotic Sun: A partial eclipse which can create illusory amalgamations. Creatures who are chaotic recieve a bonus while lawful creatures are penalized. The bonus/penalty does not apply if the creature is in shade.
80,"Time-Storm: A time-storm that freezes isolated pockets space in time, or transports pockets of space backward in time. Also has a slight teleportation effect, you might find you are quite literally beside yourself."
81,"Hell Flatus: Sulfurous gusts of wind carry a thick, nasty taste in the air from no discernible source."
82,Wild magic breath: lasts from 10 to 20 minutes. It’s a strong gust that moves starts by forcing all the creatures 10 ft. in a certain direction. All the creatures in this wind must make a Wisdom saving throw at the start of each of their turns or have to throw a d20 for the Wild Magic Table. If they succeed they are immune to this effect for 12 seconds (2 rounds).
83,Lawful Sun: The sun glows blue instead of yellow today. Lawful creatures in direct sunlight gain a bonus to all skill checks. Chaotic creatures in direct sunlight take a penalty to all skill checks. The bonus/penalty does not apply if the creature is in shade.
84,Picturesque Sunrise: All creatures bathed in the light of this sunrise are 'painted' with the pinkish-orange glow until the next sunrise.
85,"Sound-targeted Lightning: Instead of targeting the highest point in the area, this lightning targets the noisiest things in the area. In addition, instead of thunder, the lightning makes a 'Shhhhhhhh!' noise."
86,"Shimmering winds: A breeze flows trough the area, carrying tiny particles of precious gem-dust. Light sources reflect off of it, making the air seems to sparkle. The storm varies by gem type."
87,"Ember-rain: Tiny embers and ash fall from dark clouds in the sky, making the air difficult to breathe, every 2 hours directly under it's effect applies an exhaustion point. The embers are harmless, and just fade when touching any surface."
88,Kamaitachi's curse: A sadistic magical dew turn patches of long grass to beds of tiny knives.
89,Meteor storm: An airburst creates a shower of small meteorites. They can be collected.
90,Miracle hair treatment: some sort of gel falls from the sky that causes people and objects to grow hair wherever it lands or is lathered.
91,Silkburst: Billions of high atmosphere traveling tiny spiders were blown off course. They and their silken parachutes fall to the ground blanketing everything in webbing.
92,Silent rain: Anything hit by the rain makes no noise.
93,Invisible hail: a hailstorm which is completely invisible.
94,Temporal earthquake- a large movie-like earthquake happens and creates an enormous chasm which closes a minute after.
95,False Scouring: A rain that turns whatever strikes it invisible.
96,Ground Aurora: Auroras appear at ground level.
97,Fog of Awakening: Temporary awakening spell affects plants and animals in the fog.
98,"Foam Roll: An 100 foot tall mass of foam rolls in across the land. You can still breath, but until it thins out, it's hard to see."
99,Lost River: A wandering river crawls across the land unexpectedly.
100,Salt Blizzard: A hail of salt

d100,Entry

1,Spell or ritual fails but nothing happens.
2,Caster is seared by backfiring magics and suffer conjuration burns. Take 2d6 damage per level of the spell or ritual used in the summoning.
3,Caster is summoned to a different location/plane.
4,A gibbering mouther is summoned instead.
5,You summon a creature of opposite alignment to your intended target.
6,Your wards fail and the summoned creature is free to act independently.
7,A wheel of cheese appears before you. It appears to be muenster.....
8,All surfaces surrounding you for 100 feet in any direction are now covered in a thin layer of lemon juice.
9,An awakened shrub is summoned instead.
10,"A golem leg appears. It's [1d4. 1. stone, 2 iron, 3. copper, 4. tin]"
11,A monodrone is summoned from Mechanus.
12,"A tiny, harmless owlbear appears. It acts like a cat, and sticks with the party for 1d12 minutes."
13,"You summoned an outer Chaos version of what you intended: it has extra tentacles, an extra face somewhere on it's body, and an extra two hit dice. It gets a save each round to break control and do its own thing."
14,"Your summon worked, but an extra one snuck through and is running away. Who knows what it will get up to."
15,You summoned a Catherine instead: http://goblinpunch.blogspot.com/2013/06/a-spell-called-catherine.html
16,"Your summon worked, but it appears to be in the shape of a woman instead."
17,"Your summon worked, but it looks like a hybrid of what you intended and a (d6): 1. human; 2. preying mantis; 3. gorilla; 4. shark; 5. squid; 6. bull."
18,"Your summon worked, but the scale is off: (d6): 1. half sized; 2-5. 50% bigger; 6. double sized, and roll again. Redouble and roll again for each 6 rolled. It will attack you immediately prior to the summon ending."
19,You are merged with what you summoned. You and it get to each make an action each turn from your total list if options. It gets a save each turn to take an action of its own volition. This effect ends if you spend ten minutes meditating.
20,"Your summon worked, sort of. The creature is big and puffy like the Stay-Puff Marshmallow man. It gets -4 to initiative. On a natural 1-3 (d20) on it's initiative, it explodes, doing (hit dice÷3, round up)d6 damage to everything within 45 ft."
21,"Your summon worked, but it's difficult to control. Each round after their first, the creature gets to roll a save to break control. Once it does, it's free willed. You can spend an action to banish it, but it can save against that, as well."
22,"Your summon appears 2d6 × 10 ft. Above your intended location, and instead summons (d6): 1. what you intended, which spends a round feather falling down; 2. a potted petunia; 3. a blue whale (100 ft×30 ft, 10d6 damage to anything it lands on that doesn't have some sort of cover like a ditchor a wall to give ur space); 4. gelatinous cube; 5. 1,000 cubic feet of frogs; 6. 3d6 house cats and 3d6 hounds."
23,"You summon what you expected, but a vargouille is attached to it, and then it flies away."
24,"You summon what you expected, but it can't talk."
25,"The summoning doesn't work, and know you have a terrible headache."
26,You summon a doppleganger in the shape of yourself who attempts to escape immediately.
27,Your summoning attempt gains the attention of an arch devil who makes you an offer.
28,You summon a harmless woodland creature - 50/50 chance if they like you and want to hang around.
29,You summon a series of dismembered body parts which land like someone belly flopping into a pool.
30,"A disembodied voice says 'We have a lot of summonings right now and you’re on hold. You’re number d100 in line. Stay patient and we will get to you as soon as we can.' And then it plays an easy listening, elevator music version of a song that all the bards are playing right now."
31,A guy in a business suit appears and wants you to sign a lot of paperwork before doing anything.
32,A loud voice is heard 'fine fine i'm up!' But after that nothing happens.
33,1d10 waterbottles appear.
34,A small mist appear that follows the summoner for 1d4 days. It is completely harmless but every9ne that passes through it starts coughing.
35,A bleeding heart falls out of nowhere and restores (MaxHP/Level)hp to anyone the eats it.
36,"Everything seems to have gone correctly, however you don't see anything in the summoning circle. Summoned creature is invisible and is waiting for you to break the circle."
37,"Creature is summoned, however it doesn't appear in the circle. It appears 2d100 ft away from where it was supposed to appear."
38,"Creature is summoned, however it doesn't appear in the circle. It just walks up or enters through a nearby doorway. It seems that it was already in the neighborhood."
39,"Creature is summoned, however it has a much stronger willpower than expected. Each (round / new command), the summoner must make a (charisma / willpower) roll to control it. Summoner must also make a (charisma / willpower) roll to banish it."
40,1d6 Creatures get summoned. They are currently confined by the summoning circle. You only have control of one of them.
41,"The summoned creature appears, however it is heavily wounded. roll d6 (1-3 its at 1/2 hp / 4-6 its at 1/4 hp)"
42,2 Creatures appear. They are locked in mortal combat.
43,Someone else summons the same creature at the same time. roll d6 (1-2 you get the creature / 3-4 other summoner gets the creature / 5-6 creature explodes in a gory mess)
44,"Someone else summons the same creature a second after you. The creature appears in the circle, as you are about to give it a command, it vanishes."
45,"A statue of the summoned creature appears instead. roll d6 (1-2 just a statue / 3-4 actual creature, who was turned to stone / 5-6 animated statue of creature)"
46,"Creature appears, however it is frozen in a block of ice."
47,Dead creature appears. Roll d6 (1-3 just dead / 4-6 zombie version of creature)
48,Skeleton of creature appears. Roll d6 (1-3 just remains / 4-6 animated skeleton of creature)
49,A ghost version of the summoned creature appears
50,A book written about the summoned creature appears Roll d10 (1-2 story where creature is main character / 3-4 story where creature is main antagonist / 5-6 diary of creature / 7-8 naturalist's research notes on creature / 9-10 actual creature trapped in a magic story book)
51,Something too big to fit in the summoning circle reaches through it. Roll d6 (1-2 an arm reaches through / 3-4 a tentacle reaches through). Roll d6 (1-2 you have control of the appendage / 3-4 you don't have control & it attacks anything near the summoning circle / 5-6 you don't have control & it tries to grab anything near the circle an pull it back through to it's side)
52,"A human, humanoid, or demihuman appears. Roll d6 (1-2 they are wearing a mask of summoned creature / 3-4 they are wearing a costume of summoned creature / 5-6 they are wearing clothing or armor made from summoned creature)"
53,"A human, humanoid, or demihuman appears. The creature is currently (polymorphed / shapechanged) into the current form"
54,"A human, humanoid, or demihuman appears. The creature in question is currently possessing the body."
55,"Creature appears, however it is currently possessed by a (animal spirit, demon, devil, ghost, god, greater old one, outsider, etc)"
56,"A tiny rift appears in the summoning circle. You can see something moving on the other side. Roll d8 (1-2 rift slowly starts closing on its own / 3-4 rift slowly expands until summoned creature can pass through, then it closes / 5-6 rift slowly expands to doorway size and remains stable / 7-8 rift slowly expands & continues to expand showing no signs of stopping on it's own)"
57,"The creature appears. It looks sickly and strangely bloated. Soon after it's arrival, it falls to the ground and starts writhing. Roll d6 (1-2 a single creature burst out from inside the original creature / 3-4 a few creatures burst out / 5-6 a huge swarm bursts out)"
58,"The creature appears. It is currently contained by the circle, however you have no control over it. It is willing to make a deal for it's services. What do you need done? What are you willing to offer for said services?"
59,A crossbreed of the summon creature appears. Roll d6 (1-2 naturally occurring crossbreed / 3-4 magical crossbreed / 5-6 Frankenstein mishmash of parts)
60,"The creature appears, however it is currently restrained or tied. Roll d10 (1-2 tied with rope / 3-4 tied with chains / 5-6 entangled in vines / 7-8 cocooned with spider web / 9-10 restrained by magic spell)"
61,"A young child, cub, pup, kitten, etc of the summoned creature appears. If sentient creature, then you hear very faint screaming from the summoning circle and you are gripped with an overwhelming sense of dread."
62,"If summoning a creature, the creature is summons with 1d4 extra appendages of a type it would have had already."
63,"You summon an invincible wasp that stings you. It does 1 damage on a failed DEX6 check, and disappears after 1d4 hours."
64,"You and any creature (except constructs) within 30ft randomly switch bodies. If no other creature are within range, then the caster swaps with with one of the the summoned creatures"
65,Creature(s) are infested with virulent fungi. Creature within close proximity are at risk of becoming infected by the spores that cloud around the creature.
66,Creature(s) are infected with a planar disease that spreads by contact. Creatures struck by melee attacks (or those ranged attacks that expose a target to bodily fluids) are at risk of contracting the disease.
67,Creature(s) are infected with an airborne planar disease.
68,"Creature(s) are infected with a memetic planar disease. This disease is spread through abstract means such as observation of specific patterns, certain phrases, concepts, emotions, memories, etc."
69,"One or more gauths are summoned instead. These aberrations immediately attempt to break containment and consume any magic sources, be they items, casters, or magical creatures."
70,A single random magical item appears for the duration of the spell before disappearing.
71,A sorrowsworn is summoned instead.
72,An anti magic field emanates from the point of summoning rendering all magic (including the summoning itself) inactive/dispelled.
73,Caster summons themselves. This duplicate is a version of the caster from a parallel dimension and has the same stats as the caster at the time of casting.
74,"The caster summons themselves, and they disappear from where they were standing and appear in the middle of the summoning circle, or at the target location."
75,The caster creates a permanent portal directly in front of the thing that they were trying to summon.
76,"The caster summons the thing they were trying to summon, but it appears inside out. Creatures likely die very quickly unless their biology is amorphous."
77,A small wooden figurine of whatever the caster was trying to summon appears instead.
78,"A psychic aftershock carries through at the same time as the spell's intended effect. Everyone nearby makes an INT save to avoid being blinded, deafened, and temporarily bereft of other external senses for 2 rounds."
79,"A planar aftershock carries through at the same time as the spell's intended effect. Thematically appropriate objects rain down in a 60-ft radius around the location of the spell, e.g. rusted, blood-stained chunks of twisted iron for a summoning from Acheron, or gouts of acid for an acid-related spell."
80,"The spell completes explosively, releasing a shockwave that does thunder and fire damage in a 45-ft radius. Anyone failing the DEX save to avoid the shockwave is pushed back 10 ft. Anything summoned is unharmed."
81,"The summoning is unstable, causing anything summoned to disappear after 6 rounds."
82,"The summoning experiences periodic instability, intermittently causing anything summoned to Blink uncontrollably for up to 10 minutes. This version of Blink connects to whatever plane the summoned entity/entities come from, rather than the Ethereal Plane, unless they already came from this plane."
83,"The spell fully succeeds, but as a dimensional 'equal and opposite reaction', the caster is shunted into whatever plane they attempted to summon something from for some time. If they were summoning something from this plane, they are instead teleported to wherever they summoned that something from."
84,"The 'life force' of the caster and summoned entity/entities are partially bound together. Any damage one party takes is transferred to the other, but they share some defensive properties as per DM discretion."
85,"A semi-stable dimensional rift is left behind, which will close if exposed to enough destructive energy. If left open, small objects can move through it. It remains open for 1d6 hours, or until captured in a special apparatus that allows it to remain open indefinitely."
86,An inconvenient amount of lava begins pouring out of the air where the creature was supposed to appear. The caster can attempt to close the rift each turn by making a difficult Concentration check.
87,The summoned creature appears in the center of a small tornado and immediately torn to pieces. Nearby creatures and loose items are picked up and flung about by the powerful winds.
88,"The summoned creature has a bad case of hiccups. Each hiccup spits out an impossible volume of water like a fire hose in whatever direction it faces, launching the creature backward and knocking it prone."
89,"A moment after the creature appears, a giant earthen hand rises up from the ground around it and crushes it to a pulp. The hand then forms a fist and just starts punching things for the rest of the spell's duration, flying around and attacking a la the Bigby's Hand spell."
90,A small black hole opens where the creature should have appeared. Creatures within 60 feet must make difficult Dexterity saves to grab on to something heavy; creatures that fail or have nothing to grab have their speeds reduced to 0 as they are dragged 20 feet towards the center. Anything touching the black hole is struck by a Disintegrate spell. The black hole swallows itself and vanishes without a trace after a minute.
91,"A creature-shaped window opens to a radiant plane of healing energy. Creatures within 60 ft regain 10 hit points per round while exposed to the light. Once at full health, creatures continue to gain 10 temporary hit points per round but are slowed (as the spell) as long as the temp HP remain due to tumorous Akira-style growths. If the temp HP total ever exceeds a creature's normal maximum health, the creature violently explodes and its fleshy remains animate as a gibbering mouther."
92,"Instead of the intended creature, the caster summons a vast and lidless eye wreathed in flame. Anyone looking at the eye (treat this as a gaze attack on each creature's turn) must make a difficult Constitution save or turn into a pillar of salt."
93,A portal opens into a demiplane/dungeon that is located within the intended creature. Those adventurous enough should be ready for an amazing journey...
94,"Unstable magical energies course through you as the summoning fails disrupting your ability to use magic. Any further spell-casting requires concentration, with a success triggering a wild magic surge."
95,You summon an immense swarm of iridescent butterflies - everyone inside is blinded by the reflections.
96,The creature resists the summoning leading to minor magical backlash. You are stunned for a number of rounds equal to the level of the spell being used
97,"Your summoning succeeds but leaves your connections to the other planes weakened. You cannot cast another summoning spell for (1d4) 1)number of rounds equal to the spell level, 2) number of minutes equal to the spell level, 3) number of hours equal to the spell level, 4) number of days equal to the spell level."
98,"Your summoning succeeds but gravity is oriented differently for the summoned creature. Roll a 1d10 to determine the direction of gravity, in a clockwise manner (1 in north, 2 northeast, etc.) with 9 and 10 representing up and down. Gravity for the creature(s) doubles if a 10 is rolled."
99,"Your summoning is permanent, the creature(s) do not disappear upon death or the end of the spell."
100,Roll on this table twice and apply both results.

d100,Entry

1,Sourdough rolls glistening with freshly applied butter and a garnish of parsley.
2,Braids filled with minced and roasted fruits. Apple filled braids are particular popular in this season
3,Pumpernickel rye baked into rounded loafs that are adorned with caraway seeds.
4,French-style plain complete with a golden brown egg-wash.
5,Dragon donuts are twists in the shape of a dragon's horn with a thin sugar glaze and a surprisingly spicy kick.
6,Chocolate zucchini cakes coated in powder sugar and crowned with strawberries.
7,A pound cake coated in a sugary lemon drizzle.
8,"Meat pies, stuffed with various local game, give off wisps of steam and heavy aromas."
9,"Barkskin biscuits have a tough, almost woody, exterior that are often soaked in milk or tea to soften."
10,"Black ooze bread pudding is an acrid smelling, albeit surprisingly sweet, bread pudding that tastes of cinnamon licorice."
11,"Gelatinous cube flan, despite not being made from the creature, is a recipe of Calisham original that is traditionally made in square baking pan. The addition of gelatin helps the dish hold its signature shape."
12,"Dwarven ale bread is a very dense but flavorful bread made from ales and stouts (generally of dwarven make). Despite being baked, the potency of the drinks used in its making can still provide the eater a slight buzz when consumed. Often used as a desert in many northern kingdoms and tribes."
13,"Jötnbrød (YERT-n-breh), a massive boule of dark rye bread enriched with bone meal, resulting in a beefy, slightly crunchy bread. A large handful is equivalent to a trail ration, but produces horrid constipation."
14,"Sawyers flat, a horrid, matzo-like crisp-bread cut with maple (best), birch (ehhh), or pine (oh gods) sawdust. Often eaten by unskilled laborers, or during famine/drought."
15,"A frangipane style baked custard that uses a flour made from exotic, far away seeds."
16,Raisin dotted pastries of choux rolled into spirals and heavily glazed. Topped with pistachios.
17,Tartines made with spicy sausage and blistered tomatoes.
18,"Assorted Bagels (asiago, whole wheat, multigrain, blueberry, cherry, goodberry, etc.) are stacked on a nearby platter."
19,"Buttered Crumpet, best served warm to ensure that the butter soaks into the soft and spongy crust."
20,"Cheese Cake, a simple creamy filling of egg, sugar, and cheese within a fluffy pastry crust. Some variants have a coating of fruit jam on its top for added flavor."
21,"Carrot Cake, a moist layered cake covered in a thick layer of freshly made cream cheese frosting."
22,"Fresh cornbread & butter served with a side of honey, maple syrup, and/or fruit jam/jelly."
23,"Fruit Dumplings (apple, blackberry, blueberry, elderberry, strawberry, etc) that have been boiled or fried and coated in a mixture of sugar and cinnamon."
24,"Fruit Pies (apple, blackberry, blueberry, elderberry, strawberry, etc) adorns with ornate patterns in to top crust."
25,"Meat Dumplings, dumplings filled with various meats. Some enterprising creators crimp them to resemble a fat large lizard or dragon."
26,"Muffins of various flavors—apple, apple banana, banana nut, blueberry, etc.—, are heaped in a basket on a nearby table. Some are topped with powdered brown sugar, powdered sugar, and/or sesame, poppy, or pumpkin seeds."
27,"Pumpkin pie, a creamy orange desert that is best served with a dollop of freshly whipped cream."
28,Sweet Potato Pie is a staple of many households during holiday celebrations. Often topped with a powdering or hardened glaze of brown sugar.
29,Fried funnel cake with sprinkled confectioners’ sugar.
30,"Bowlcaps are a type of round, dense bread rolls made to be crusty on one side but soft and steamed on the other. Typically eaten by laborers, the soft side is usually pressed down over the rim of a wooden bowl to act as a lid, containing and preserving the contents, until mealtime."
31,Flower bread is made from various types of powdered flowers giving it light floral taste and aroma.
32,"Honey bread, bread but with honey."
33,"The Wrong Bread, or the 'you weren't supposed to buy THAT one.', is a half-stale loaf of bread containing a plot hook baked into it. This item could be a small magical trinket with a larger meaning, such as a ring, a wand, a small piece of a very powerful spell-scroll, or something more mundane but equally powerful. For example, the item could be a signet-ring or seal of a noble or royal (maybe it's a high-end fake, maybe it's the real-deal that was recently stolen), or perhaps just a small bag of very valuable gems. No matter what it actually is, you have it now, and boy are there people who are going to try to make you regret it."
34,Small chocolate bars that were prepared using healing potions. When you don't have a druid and want goodberry.
35,"Goodberry Pie, made with the eponymous berries, grants 5hp when consumed, but must be eaten within a day."
36,"Gelatinous Pudding - a very, very sticky treat."
37,Spider bread that was baked by drow. Don’t ask. Seriously.
38,"Miner's pasties, are made with meat and potatoes in one end, jam in the other, and a thick crust 'handle' on one side that is designed to be grabbed with coal-black hands and thrown away after."
39,Tiny dense black rye rolls that are studded with cloves.
40,"Fist-sized cups of hard bread, filled with cold pease pudding."
41,"Crates of ship's biscuit, barely edible but capable of lasting years at sea."
42,"Small boxes of traveler's biscuit - similar, but more palatable due to the addition of lard and salt, and with a shelf life of only a year."
43,"Monkey's tail is a coil of thin pretzel-like bread that is boiled in soda ash, topped with salt and pepper, and then baked."
44,Piles of pale-yellow buttery shortbread that are imprinted with various coats of arms.
45,"Roll and stew is a wooden bowl containing some thin stock (fish, goat, squirrel, etc) and a bread roll to dip in it."
46,Small balls of fried bread that are soaked in pistachio-flavored syrup.
47,"Mutton-bread, a double-fist-sized roll of steamed bread, that is filled with minced mutton spiced with plenty of pepper. The mutton is cooked inside the bread, so its juices leak out when bitten into."
48,"Small rhubarb pies, made with thin crunchy hot-water pastry."
49,"Red rolls are bread made with pig's blood instead of water, and stuffed with boiled pig stomach or intestine. Very nourishing, if a bit smelly."
50,"Golden pear bread, shiny and egg enriched, contains a generous filling of wine-stewed pears, cinnamon, and brown sugar."
51,"Peasant's breakfast', a barely-leavened flatbread that is split and stuffed with curried chickpeas and a chopped boiled egg."
52,"Penny treat', a finger-sized roll of brown bread drizzled with blackstrap molasses or watered-down maple syrup."
53,"Tuppenny treat', like a Penny treat, but topped with a sliver of dry cheese."
54,Fragrant caraway seed buns display a golden brown top glistening with butter.
55,"Salt-roll are small round rolls of chewy brown bread, topped with a truly alarming amount of flaky sea salt."
56,"Nut breads, sweet or savory, baked with whatever nuts are locally grown."
57,Puffed pastries cooked in meat drippings (think Yorkshire puddings).
58,"Mushroom breads, sometimes with unexpected medicinal or recreational properties."
59,"Tiny frosted cakes full of spices, nuts, or fruits."
60,"Towering bread creations formed in the shapes of fantastical beasts, castles, or scenes, usually for festivals or special occasions."
61,"Bacon, sharp cheese, green onion, and hot pepper scones."
62,"Chicken Bread, it's got the chicken baked in! So it's great for those on the go. Developed by humans, of course."
63,Almond croissants are flaky croissants sliced in half and filled with dark chocolate spread.
64,"Siren’s Tack, a dry and dense bread, that is as hard as a brick. When eaten alone, this hardtack is basically a rock that sits in your gut. They are surprisingly filling, but a bit hard to keep down. It’s traditional to boil them in broth (to soften and flavor it) and serve under fish and gravy in port towns."
65,"Plump-Helm Roast is a unique pie, filled to the brim with minced and liquefied Plump-Helmet mushrooms. The subterranean fungus is rather sweet (which allows it to be brewed into alcohol, among other things), which makes the pie a rather addictive mix of sweet and savory. Often served with Plump-Helmet Wine and fine dwarven cheeses."
66,"Lifeleaf Wafer are small disks of flour, water, salt and finely chopped lifeleaf that are baked till hard. Naturally restorative, unnaturally salty."
67,"Vagrant’s Cake, a recipe passed down from Druid to Druid; barley flour, berries, sugar, eggs, goat butter and water, mixed finely and baked until golden. The cakes are sweet and nutritious, perfect for short, day-long journeys."
68,"Illithid Brain Pies appears like a common pie, with an uncommon filling. Whether the brains are from or for the Illithid is up to the skill of the adventurer wanting to bake this dish."
69,Seawater bread is a notable staple of coastal markets and bakeries.
70,Dwarvish baguette are short and stout like its namesake.
71,Gnomish sourdough made from 4000 year old yeast culture.
72,Phallic-shaped doces fálicos frosted sweet bread.
73,Twice baked travelers bread provide of tough but crisp foodstuff that is perfect for trail rations.
74,Amaranth biscuits yield a subtle nutty flavor that goes well with many spreads.
75,Fruitcake! Can also double as a doorstop or makeshift weapon.
76,"Goodberry Biscuit are, a light, flaky, buttery biscuit infused with goodberry juice and drenched in a sweet sugary glaze. Eating two has either the healing or satiating effect at random. You can eat four but you are sickened for d4 rounds."
77,"Conchas are white, brown, or pink dusted sweet breads with a shell pattern on them"
78,Churros are long tubes of fried dough coated with cinnamon and sugar
79,"Cochito, a soft gingerbread in the shape of a pig"
80,"Empanadas and pineapple, apple, or pumpkin turnovers provide a sweet, yet filling treat."
81,"A single, dusty, half-eaten cracker just laying on the floor."
82,"Turtle bread, a round loaf that is hard on the outside, and super soft on the inside."
83,Copper cookies are small sweet cookies that cost 5cp each.
84,Six Copper Pie (based on the Sing a Song of 6 Pence song/rhyme)
85,4 and 20 Shrieker Mushrooms baked in a pie. The pie is baked in a dutch oven and set inside a fire-pit. When cut a few soft screams escape through the crust.
86,Stone bread is perfect for adventurers as it will never go stale due to it already rock hard. It can double up as a rather effective improvised weapon.
87,"Black moss cupcake, a jet-black appearance belies an earthy almost charcoal-like flavor that transitions to matcha aftertaste."
88,Owlbear Claws are delicious pastries made with honey and fig. They are a foot across with large ‘claws’ cut out on one side. Will feed a party of five. (Or one certain Dragonborn in my campaign).
89,Arcane party muffins are chocolate and hazelnut muffins with magical blue sugar (that sparkles) sprinkled on top of them. When consumed you can change your eye color for a minute.
90,"Peanut butter cookies, a simple cookie adorned with fork marks and granulated sugar."
91,Prism dough is a bread that is risen to look like a triangular based prism. It tastes sweeter at the top of the spire and sourer nearer the base. Can feed 2-4 people.
92,The Little Volcano is a cone shaped jam donut that uses chili jam.
93,"Troll Rolls are warm basil rolls, jarred with melted honey butter and sugared flesh (non-human)."
94,"Swamp-weed Loaf, an uncommon and generally disliked type of baked good made from a dried aquatic kelp found in swamps. It's unknown who first invented the swamp-weed loaf or for what reason, but what is known is that it's absolutely dreadful."
95,"Fairy fingers are merengue treats, piped in a thinly oblong shape. Often coated in confectioner’s sugar but some recipes call for actual pixie or sprite dust."
96,"Fairy's heart, a pastry twisted into the shape of a heart, with a (magically?) glistening jam centre."
97,"Angel food cake, a light and fluffy cake made using angel blood instead of eggs. Often glazed with a light lemon and sugar glaze. Tastes heavenly."
98,"Devils food cake, a dense and heavy cake made using the blood of devils that is fortified using ground bone devil horn. This cake has a sweet fiery cinnamon aftertaste that leaves the eater wanting for more."
99,Rhubarb shortbread bars are a sweet confection made from shortbread coated in rhubarb custard and topped with brown sugar.
100,"Ankheg burrows, a thin but crispy chimney cake made by wrapping a thin strip of dough around a spool and coating the outside with oils and sugar before baking. Often filled with chocolate, nuts, or various fruits."

d100,Entry

1,The character cannot turn right until the curse is lifted.
2,"Characters feet always sink at least 1 inch into any surface they walk on (the at least accounts for walking on water, as in if they try to walk on water they sink normally)"
3,"All [food] type becomes tasteless (meat, vegetables, fruit)"
4,"When the character fires a ranged weapon, the ammunition always breaks on impact (no effect on damage)"
5,"Until the curse is lifted, when the character falls to 0hp, roll a D100. If you roll equal to or below the CR of the creature that cursed you, you instantly die."
6,"A player must close every door they walk through, even if there are people behind them."
7,"A player's weapon becomes lodged inside the body of their enemy after any stab attack, a strength check (DC 15) is needed to free the weapon."
8,"A player's weapons become twice as heavy, requiring two actions to strike once, until the curse is lifted."
9,"A player is stalked by an imp, who simply follows him, saying nothing, always staring. No one else can see the imp."
10,"The player's backpack is enchanted, to always give the player an item they needed in the past, but never what they will need in the future or present."
11,"The next item the cursed player grabs is bound to them forever, they can never get rid of it."
12,"Everytime the cursed character kills someone stealthily, the slain thing lets out an incredibly loud scream that can be heard from 500 ft away, even if it wouldn't be possible for the dead thing to scream."
13,"Character takes on the appearance and smell of being undead, but isn't."
14,"Characters must only answer questions with lies, unless they are asked about the reason for their behaviour (ex: ""are you cursed?"" ""Are you lying on purpose?"") In which case they must respond in the affirmative."
15,Characters must agree to every suggestion or request made within 30 feet of them. Curse is broken after a week.
16,The cursed character takes 1 damage whenever a creature within 30 feet of them takes any damage.
17,Character cannot willingly kill/spare the life of any living creature (choose depending on character personality).
18,Character becomes incapable of visually perceiving living creatures.
19,"Characters low-light vision and high-light vision switch (i.e. sunlight is effectively dark, but can see areas in shadow as if they were brightly lit)."
20,"Roll a d100. After the amount of dies shown on dice, the character explodes for (as per a 5th level Fireball) the next time they take a long rest, then is immediately put under the effects of a Reincarnation spell. The cycle continues until a Wish spell dispels it."
21,"Character is struck with blindness, but can accurately identify objects by taste through the air up to 60 feet away."
22,Butt switches place with face. Switches every time either orifice expels any substance.
23,"Your CHA stat becomes your CHAR stat, determining your effectiveness at cooking up a mean barbeque. Reflavour spells and skill checks accordingly."
24,"When the target of the curse next goes to sleep, they dream of a burning lake. The dreams progress, becoming nightmares over time. The target instinctively becomes aware of the direction of the lake, and must save vs Wis or spend that day trying to reach the lake. The target must save every day to prevent the condition progressing, taking a penalty to mental rolls for every stage it advances. To completely recover, the target must make 3 saves in a row, if they fail a save it regresses to its initial condition, and if they fail 3 times in a row the target becomes maddened until they reach the lake. Upon reaching the lake they will see it is not engulfed in flames, and will take d6 Psychic damage for the number of days they have been affected by the urges."
25,"The first ritual performed after being cursed succeeds instantly, but when they next sleep the target must save vs. Con. If they fail, their skin dries and their body catches alight, taking d6 damage per turn. The fire can be put out by magical or mundane conventions."
26,"The cursed begins aging at 5 years an hour. When they reach 100 years, they die, and an infant crawls from their body’s clothing. It continues to age at the same rate until it reaches 20. Same character, same memories."
27,"As the curse is activated, the target's hands detach from their wrists and scuttle away, and new hands grow in their place. For the rest of the day, every time they cast a spell, the same thing happens. The hands remain animate until destroyed, and will do their best to make terrible mischief."
28,"A thunderous voice narrates everything the cursed does, says, or thinks for the next d4 hours."
29,"For the next d4 days, every time the cursed attempts to speak, including to cast a spell, they must Save vs Int or instead deliver a lengthy and discursive monologue on: 1: bean cultivation; 2: the daily schedule of an emperor who died thousands of years ago; 3: the spiritual beliefs of spiders; 4: the life cycle of the cherub; 5: the various manias, phobias, or perversions of the nearest, most powerful monarch; 6: the correct method of preparing, storing, and administering a heretofore unknown and spectacularly deadly poison; 7: the best tourist destinations in the nearest village; 8: famous fish poets; 9: the dangers of breathing; 10: the magical properties of cheese; On a repeated roll, the target must continue their lecture from where they left off before."
30,"Until the curse is lifted the character constantly sniffs and has a runny nose. Disadvantage on stealth, persuasion and deception checks."
31,"Character can not control the volume at which he speaks. Player rolls a D6 every time their character speaks, even rolls are spoken in a whisper, odd rolls are shouting."
32,Animals and children are always aware of your presence and are able to locate you without difficulty.
33,"""Curse of Popularity"" - In populated area with non-hostile NPCs, everyone knows who you are and will not leave you alone. Roll a charisma check/save (DC varies). If failed, you are viewed in an unfavorable light. If passed, you are viewed in a favorable one."
34,Everytime a player deals damage the same amount is reflected back to a random party member.
35,All food and drink consumed immediately tastes of rotten flesh a successful fortitude save of DC 15 can overcome this taste.
36,Whenever the PC comes into a hallway/corridor they are compelled to Sprint at full speed to the end. Will save to resist at DMs discretion.
37,The PC must only speak in rhyme.
38,The PC gains a new fear based on popular vote of the party until dispelled.
39,All the player's equipment glows brightly for 24 hours. All of it.
40,The player becomes magnetic.
41,It is always raining in a 5ft cube around the player. The intensity randomly varies from a drizzle to a downpour and can exist even underwater or indoors.
42,The character finds themselves unable to open any containers or doors which require a twisting motion.
43,The character perceives traps everywhere where none exist.
44,The cursed becomes lactose intolerant. Consuming any dairy leads to 1d4 hour(s) of insufferable gas & diarrhea.
45,"The player must compulsively juggle items any time the player has two or more of an object in easy reach. DC 10+the number of items being juggled Acrobatics check, or an item gets dropped, with appropriate consequences."
46,Boots squeak loudly with each step.
47,"Effects of alcohol are heavily amplified, so that even drinking one drop of a fairly weak alcoholic beverage will make the PC drunk. Drinking a full glass of a strong alcoholic beverage could potentially cause death."
48,All of the PC's armor and clothing teleported off their body and always floats just out of reach. Any attempt to put on other clothing or armor produces the same effect.
49,Character's known languages are randomly determined after a long rest. Roll 1d8 per standard language known & 1d8 per exotic language known. You decide whether to exclude common from these rolls or not.
50,"After a long rest a random amount of GP the character is carrying is randomly changed to an amount of either Electrum, Silver or Copper pieces of the same worth, increasing number of coins. eg. (1d20 Amount, Roll 1d6 to determine type) Won't take long for pockets to become overflowing if character doesn't spend loose change."
51,Any divination spells where the caster or target is within a certain range of a character are retargeted to that character.
52,"The cursed begins to weep tears of blood uncontrollably, reducing their hit point maximum by 1 for every hour the curse remains active. The cursed dies if this effect reduces its hit point maximum to 0."
53,"The cursed is compelled to repeat the last word of each sentence they say 3 times, each time speaking a little bit softer than the last. If the curse remains active for more than 24 hours, the cursed is compelled to dramatically flick their hands open and closed with each echo."
54,Cursed characters are hated by all cats until cured. Every cat will hiss and attempt to swipe and bite the character. Irregardless of the cat is successful or not the cat will run away and hide. If the cat is successful in the attack any wounds caused will not heal (even with healing spells and potions) and will continuously weep foul smelling pus.
55,"The character cannot be convinced by any means that magic exists. They rationalize magical events away by using insane, impossible logic."
56,The character believes themselves to have swapped bodies with the nearest person. Nothing has happened.
57,One of the character's limbs no longer has any bones. It flops around uselessly until the bones have successfully regrown in 1d4 days.
58,The character is unable to sleep when others are sleeping in a 60' radius.
59,Once the character has fallen asleep they cannot be awoken by any non-magical means until 8 hours have passed.
60,The character must consume 1d4+1 times the amount of food and drink a normal person does do sustain themselves. They experience terrible thirst and hunger pains. Treat as exhaustion if they do not actively maintain this regimen.
61,The character cannot see anyone within 10 feet of them.
62,"The character finds a wooden spoon in their bag. Every time they retrieve an item they find another wooden spoon. Every time they investigate an area they find another wooden spoon. Every time the search a body they find another wooden spoon. If they intentionally attempt to locate, retrieve, or use a spoon the task is impossible."
63,Incapable of ignoring direct orders given to their person.
64,When splashed with cold water transforms the character into the opposite gender. Warm water temporarily reverses the transition.
65,Must make one significant lie per day.
66,Automatically fails all swimming checks; it's as if the character weights 10 times their normal weight while in water.
67,Turned into a lycanthrope... with the form of a rabbit.
68,All creatures of a specific species are invisible to the character.
69,A perpetually magical darkness surrounds the character for 25 feet. It is transmittable by touch.
70,"When killed for the first time each day, the wounds heal and they instead stabilize. If they are not killed once a day, they are permanently slain."
71,Makes an unarmed attack against themselves whenever they say 'what'.
72,Characters ears and eyes switch place. PC cannot look straight ahead. This lasts until the next full day ends.
73,"PC summons a little foot tall naked man with a hat that goofs around and makes as much noise as possible. Everyone can hear him and see his impact in the area, but cannot see him. He has no name and will not speak back. He just speaks in sounds and screams."
74,PC thinks their eyes have the same effect as a beholder and use them as much as possible in combat.
75,PCs teeth are as weak as glass.
76,PCs weapon changes to the next material they touch.
77,PC is followed by all bugs within 20 yards. (Bonus points if there are ant hills around).
78,PC grows a mouth in their chest. You can feed the mouth but you do not know what it will do. Overtime the mouth will grow if unfed.
79,PCs money all goes down a material (gold turns to silver) until curse is lifted. Copper turns into wooden toy coins that children would play with.
80,All plants the PC touches turn to dust for the next week. (Bonus points if a druid gets this)
81,All potions being held by PC give a delusion effect (example: PC thinks they are invisible but are not.)
82,All damage given to the PC for the next 12 minutes are irreversible.
83,The next person the PC touches switches all items.
84,PC's armor or clothing (whichever applicable) is made entirely out of shards of glass magically held together.
85,Character must kill one humanoid per week or die themselves.
86,"Character must read one book per week or die, it must be a book they have not read before."
87,"Every dawn, gravity reverses for the character for one hour."
88,Whenever the character physically harms another sentient being the character must apologize.
89,Whenever the character is on a sea vehicle of any kind the character vomits anything he/she eats and cannot sleep.
90,"The PCs hand's tense up, and are stuck in a fist until the curse is removed."
91,"The character's left and right hands, and/or left and right feet switch sides until the curse is lifted."
92,"This curse hardens all food this character tries to eat like stone, unless they have the correct eating utensil to eat it. (ie They need a spoon to eat soup, a fork to eat pie, a knife to cut meat, etc)."
93,The player believes that their mentor/parent has just died.
94,The player receives at least one false vision from their deity a day.
95,"The cursed player can no longer fail the expectations of those they come across. (For example, if an NPC learns the player's name and they believe their name to be elfish, they will become an elf. If they expect that he is a weakling due to rumors they have heard of him losing an important fight, the player looses some of his strength. If they thought he would be taller, the character would become taller, etc...)"
96,"The player is cursed to look down at the ground; they can no longer make eye contact with others, unless they are able to look down on them..."
97,"Until this player's curse is lifted, as long as they wear shoes/boots, they will feel as if their feet are walking on burning hot coals."
98,This player has been cursed to be afraid of the sun.
99,"This curse makes the player compelled to hug all characters they come across, even if it would be inappropriate or awkward."
100,This curse makes the character forcibly say gibberish every time they cast a spell.

d100,Entry

1,"A bored guard at the western gate of the walled city tells the party that the non-noble entrance is on the southern side. There is no southern gate. “Go ahead, you can’t miss it!”"
2,A shopkeeper who keeps disappearing to the back of his shop for several minutes and keeps returning with the wrong item. “Is this it?”
3,A town crier that only has celebrity gossip with no plot relevance. “The Impresario Raphael Vecchini is rumored to be sleeping with his wife’s sister!”
4,A man at the tavern offers valuable information for a drink. He drinks it in one go and passes out. “Zzz”
5,"An Elven scryer whose fetish slowly takes over whatever he is scrying for the party. ”Yes, I can see the leader of the Red Hands. He’s taking off his boots and putting on high heels. His toes are nicely manicured and . . . hrrg, painted with . . . red polish.” (Hopefully not stolen from Oglaf)"
6,"A talismonger who only has charms for impotence and loudly haggles if the party tries to leave. ”OK, SIR! I’LL SELL YOU THE CHARM TO FIX YOUR IMPOTENCE FOR HALF PRICE!”"
7,"A thieves guild apprentice hired by the party who picks the wrong pocket. ”Not sure why you call him The Luke, but here’s Luke’s coin purse.”"
8,"A nearly deaf old woman who has the only wagon in town in her yard, who doesn’t actually own the wagon and doesn’t know who does. “No the cabin isn’t for sale, I live here!” “No one can own a dragon!” (H/T to Critical Hit)"
9,An orc mercenary who trips and impales herself on her own sword at the start of the battle. ”For the glory of the-ARGH!”
10,"A captured henchman with long-term memory loss. ”Yeah, we go out and kill Clerics of Bahamut every once in a while, but I don’t remember why.”"
11,"A bureaucrat who requires immaculate forms in triplicate (with stamps from three other bureaucrats) before assisting the party. ”No, you need to fill out a Form 19D to be eligible to receive a Form 37.”"
12,A pirate captain who has no treasure. ”The real treasure is the mateys ye forge along the way.”
13,"An uncorrupted prince whose only ambition is terrible poetry. ”I know my father is a withering husk and my brother is a secret Lich, but I’m just really focused on my art right now.”"
14,A fire breather who gets a coughing fit and accidentally breathes fire on the party. ”Oh sorry! Fire went down the wrong pipe.”
15,A stealthy guide whose seasonal allergies kick in as they sneak the party into a heavily guarded area. ”ACHOO!! Damn hay fever.”
16,A fisherman who answers any question with an unrelated big fish story. ”‘Twas a ship blacker than the eyes of that 30 foot shark I caught off Montauk.”
17,A hunchbacked witness who only saw the villain’s shoes. ”They were brown leather. Hope that helps!”
18,"A village blacksmith who only knows how to make and mend cookware. ”I suppose you could hit the goblins with this wok, it’s pretty big.”"
19,A legendary smuggler who doesn’t wash his hands and can smuggle anything that will fit in his butt. ”There’s your Ring of Giant Strength. That’ll wash right off.”
20,"A ship captain who misheard the party’s destination and doesn’t realize the error until they arrive at the wrong port. ”Ohhh, I thought you said Iron Keep, not Waterdeep.”"
21,A caravan master who underestimates travel times by 50 percent. ”I really need a better map.”
22,A cultist who really wants tell the party the 100s long list of the elder demons of their cult. ”Bathsheba begat Beelzebub who begat Ezekiel who begat . . .”
23,A barkeep who only speaks and understands an unknown language but understands miming ordering a drink. ”Myrklap kyd ben?”
24,"A barmaid who keeps forgetting the party’s order. ”I’m sorry, I’ll get that mead right out to you.”"
25,"A bard who can’t hear the party over the sound of his drumming, including requests to stop drumming. ”SORRY, I CAN’T HEAR YOU OVER THE DRUMS!”"
26,A magical healer who only knows the Sleep spell. ”A good night’s sleep is the best medicine.”
27,"A random stranger who when questioned insists they don’t speak Common in flawless unaccented Common. ”Greatest apologies ladies and gentlemen, but I’m afraid I don’t speak Common and certainly cannot understand it. Good day!”"
28,"A pair of rival potion sellers who get in a fight with each other over the party choosing one of their stalls, knocking over all the shelves and shattering all the potions. ”You spat in that healing potion, I saw it!”"
29,A librarian who shushes the party regardless of how quietly they talk. ”SHHHHH!!!!!!”
30,A corpse that has had “Speak with Dead” cast on it that responds to every question with crying about how traumatic death is and asking for a hug. ”The spear stabbed me right in the gut and it hurt so bad!”
31,"A cable ferry operator on the other side of a river who gets distracted when the ferry is halfway and stops pulling the party across the river. ”Come here little bunny, let’s be friends! I’m gonna catch you!”"
32,"A merchant selling “health potion bottles” that are just the bottle with no potion. B ”Of course they’re just bottles, I’m a glass blower not a potionist.”"
33,A rumor monger whose only information is that some idiotic newcomers have come to town and describes the party. ”A pack of rubes showed up in the city and everyone already hates them.”
34,"An angel who appears at a pivotal battle but leaves to fight an entirely different evil plot. ”Sorry, I’m here to smite Usidore the Blue, not Gragnor Darkheart. Good luck though!”"
35,A hailed ship that misreads the party’s message and departs without stopping. ”We don’t need rescue. Have fun at your beach party.”
36,"A Paladin ally that refuses to use stealth or cunning. ”Ronan the Accuser, I will have my vengeance!”"
37,"An herbalist who offers cheap rates on potions, but will need 3 months to journey to where the needed herbs are and get back. ”Eight potions coming right up. Just need to ascend the Fangtooth Mountains, cross the Brackhaven Moors, and delve into the Caves of Madness.”"
38,A majordomo who helpfully schedules them for their master’s next available appointment in 2 years. ”You’re lucky we had one available so soon!”
39,"A dragon who obsessively reorganizes her massive hoard and can’t talk until it’s done. ”I wasted 500 years organizing by value, but now I’m thinking I should order by material type.”"
40,A pack of street urchins who cheer or boo the party incessantly wherever they go and at all hours. ”YAYYYYYYY!!!!”
41,"A tailor who lies to the party that the palace only admits visitors who wear entirely sheer clothing to ensure no hidden weapons. ”It’s ok, the whole court is basically naked.”"
42,A ferrier who only shoes donkeys due to a grudge against a horse who kicked him. ”You may be wondering why they call me Smashface The Ferrier.”
43,"A goblin artificer who only sells hand buzzers, squirting flowers, and extendo-grabbers for retrieving stuff from the floor. ”Good joke!”"
44,"An exotic creatures dealer who claims to have a baby dragon, but it’s clearly a very fat iguana with fake wings. ”What do you mean you want your money back?”"
45,"A courier who delivers an urgent, cash-on-delivery message to the party that’s intended for someone else. ”Lady Xiao says she loves your jade silk kimono. That’ll be two silver coins, please.”"
46,"A man in the stocks who claims to be a dethroned king and offers great riches if freed. He leads the party back to his “castle,” a farmhouse, and offers them bags of lead coins minted by his “kingdom.” ”The Kingdom of Steve shall not soon forget your service to the throne!”"
47,A customer in line ahead of the party that asks to see every item and then decides not to buy anything. ”Can you check in the back?”
48,"A giant who only allows the party to pass over a bridge if they can answer his riddle. He has forgotten the riddle. ”What walks on three legs-no, that’s not it.”"
49,A carriage driver who makes a lengthy detour to retrieve his forgotten lunch from home. ”Just making a quick stop.”
50,"A bridgekeeper roused from sleep who promises to lower the drawbridge. He disappears inside the gatehouse and does not return. ”Yeah, yeah, hold on.”"
51,An artisan named Gary who created an object the party is investigating. Gary does not exist and was invented by the other artisans as a scapegoat. ”Classic Gary!”
52,A fortune teller with a crystal ball who only shows the PC leaving her shop unhappy. ”I see you storming out and calling this a scam.”
53,"A shopkeeper who won’t accept high value coinage due to counterfeiting concerns. ”Sorry, we don’t take gold coins. Too many fakes.”"
54,"A pair of horse riders who stop to chat in the middle of a narrow bridge, blocking traffic. ”Hail Akbar, what news? No, I can talk right now.”"
55,A villager who warns of a scourge descending on the village. They lead the party to a wall that has been graffitied by local teens. ”This used to be a safe village.”
56,"A trader selling a treasure map. The treasure is real, but months’ travel from the party’s current location. ”Sure it’s in Turmish, but it’s free for the taking!”"
57,A thief being chased by the authorities who tosses the stolen goods to the party and disappears. ”Catch!”
58,"A gambler who keeps adding new rules and exotic bets to the game, making it impossible to follow. ”It’s the second en banc round, so you can double your trifecta bet, or go for a lateral sidebar.”"
59,"A priest who won’t stop swinging around his smoking censer, spreading noxious smoke everywhere. ”I will pray to Ilmatur to heal that cough.”"
60,"A falconer who sends the party’s message via his falcon, only to have the poorly trained falcon fly away to freedom. ”Well, he’s not coming back.”"
61,"A sailor who gets violently seasick all the time. ”Sorry Captain, I’ll swab the de-BLARGH!”"
62,A cook whose entire menu isn’t available but doesn’t inform the party until they order something he doesn’t have. ”Fresh out of that.”
63,"An official who pockets the party’s bribe, then doesn’t hold up their end of the deal. ”What money?”"
64,"A beggar who isn’t happy with whatever aid the party offers and throws it back at them. ”I said a turkey leg, not a ham hock!”"
65,"An incompetent shepherd who has blocked the road with sheep for several miles. ”Sorry, they kinda do their own thing.”"
66,A wizard who keeps accidentally casting Prestidigitation when talking with his hands and lighting the party’s clothes and hair on fire. ”Does anyone smell smoke?”
67,"A star-struck, barefoot and scrawny peasant youth who pledges their life to fight alongside the party and will not be dissuaded. ”I am but a poor peasant girl, who weighs 90 pounds soaking wet, who’s never been in a fight, cursed with hemophilia, but . . .”"
68,"An improv troupe that appears one by one, dressed as a king and insisting that the party swear fealty to them and only them. ”We are Improv Faerun and - please stop booing!”"
69,"A noble who never remembers the party, no matter how many quests they do for him. ”Greeting, I am Lord Dunsmuir, it’s nice to meet you.”"
70,"An abandoned baby who cries loudly whenever not being sung to. The more vulgar the song, the quicker the baby stops crying. ”WAAAAHHH!!!!”"
71,A slaver who keeps making cliche office humor jokes. ”Workin’ hard or hardly workin’?”
72,"A missionary who is frustratingly vague about the tenets of his religion. ”We believe in doing what is right and uhh, doing right.”"
73,A barbarian who shouts “FIRE!” in an urban area and leads the party to a tavern hearth fire. ”Come quick! FIRE! Fire bad!”
74,"A woman who begs for help rescuing her baby who is clearly a man with a long-haired wig. No women’s clothes, no makeup, just a wig and fake-ass voice. ”My baby!”"
75,A kobold who insists a party member’s weapon belongs to him. ”Two-hand sword belong to me!”
76,"A gnoll who laughs loudly at whatever the party says, even if it’s not funny. ”Hahahahah”"
77,"A troubadour who wants to follow the party and sing of their deeds, but keeps getting the details wrong. ”Omar the Paladin smote the dragon with a longbow.”"
78,"A devil who has negotiated a deal with the party, but realizes she left her infernal quill that will make the deal binding back in the Nine Hells of Baator. ”I’d lose my horns if they weren’t attached to my head. Wait here for a few years?”"
79,"A suitor who keeps showing up and interrupting important social or combat encounters to profess their unrequited love for a member of the party. ”Adriel, I know this battle still rages, but will you marry me?”"
80,"A child who insists one of the party is their parent, even though they are the wrong race or species. ”Daddy?”"
81,"A merchant who accidentally orders X cases of an item instead of X items for the party. ”Well, you gonna pay or not?”"
82,A stray animal that follows the party and pees on their shoes whenever they stop moving. ”What’s that soun-HEY!”
83,"A gentleman who demands satisfaction but insists on extremely odd or unwieldy dueling weapons. ”Very well, we meet with woks at dawn.”"
84,"A duellist who challenges a party member to a duel at a dramatic but inconvenient time and location, but fails to show up. ”Guys, I don’t think he’s coming.”"
85,A monk who wants to demonstrate their power by catching a swing of a partymember’s sword with their bare hands. Cries out in pain when the sword cuts off their hand. ”Why would you do that?!”
86,A crime lord who mumbles like a bad impression of The Godfather and is annoyed of asked to repeat himself. ”I sdidnlikyrtnfvcd.”
87,A princess who insists the party address her through an intermediary who keeps subtly messing up their message. ”The Princess accepts your offer to rid the kingdom of the demi-rich. She also doesn’t care for the bourgeoisie.”
88,"A king who takes way too long to get to the point. ”So I tied an onion to my belt, as was the style at the time. This was back when the kingdom was mostly onion fields, as far as the eye could see. Back then you could see a punching Judy show for a copper and still have change leftover for a turkey leg.”"
89,An adventurer who constantly tries to one-up the party’s achievements. ”Oh yeah? I once fought two dragons.”
90,"A prophet who warns of a great threat that the party has already defeated. ”A dark figure threatens the realm. She wears a red cloak with the sigil of Ixumat, like the one you’re using as a tablecloth.”"
91,"A Goliath who refuses to wear pants when speaking with the party. ”Stop staring, my eyes are up here.”"
92,"A BBEG who is amenable to stopping their evil plot, but can’t quite grasp why it’s considered evil no matter how well explained. ”But I’m not killing them, the legions of the damned that I summoned are. Necromancers don’t kill people, undead kill people.”"
93,A pacifist who disapproves of the party using violence. ”Attacking the Slyntar the Blood Thirster makes you just as bad as Slyntar the Blood Thirster.”
94,A brooding lone wolf who keeps loudly interjecting what a brooding loner they are into the party’s conversation with someone else. ”I don’t want to talk about my tragic backstory!”
95,"A min-maxed NPC who criticizes a similar player’s abilities. ”You use Cloud of Daggers instead of Scorching Ray? Psh, noob.”"
96,"A dying hero whose requests get more complex and burdensome as their extended death goes on. ”Promise me my funeral procession will have 500 elvish ladies, each wearing a crown of golden peonies, accompanied by a 40 person orchestra.”"
97,"A condescending hireling who keeps comparing the party to better adventuring parties they’ve worked for. ”QuestEx would have cleared this dungeon without a long rest, but hey, not everyone can be QuestEx.”"
98,"A cat breeder who is concerned the level 1 party will hurt demand for his cats by killing all the rats in town. ”Rattin’s my business, how about you keep movin’.”"
99,"An artificer who sets aside an alchemy experiment to talk to the party. The experiment starts to smoke more and more, but the artificer insists it’s fine. Eventually it explodes. ”Did you do an apprenticeship in alchemy? No? Then don’t worry about it.”"
100,"A party of adventurers who keep undercutting the party in quest negotiations. ”Free market at work, bro.”"

d100,Entry

1,"The Skeleton Key - Whenever the rogue is attempting to pick the lock with The Skeleton Key, the DC of the lock is reduced significantly. The key is shaped like a finger bone."
2,"Boots of Stone - Once per long rest, as an action, turn into stone for up to 24 hours. You can hear and see, but you can't turn your head or move your eyes. You may dismiss the effect at any time."
3,Psychic Document - Displays whatever credentials the target expects to see if they fail a DC15 wisdom check.
4,Flutterscope - You have a monocle that is magically linked to a winged lens that can fly up to 60 feet away from you at your command. Looking through the monocle shows you what appears on the other side of the lens.
5,Bag of Unlimited Flour - exactly as it sounds. The flour vanishes after an hour outside of the bag.
6,Aluminum Crown - you can't be detected by magical means.
7,"An ear trumpet made from a worn out piece of driftwood. Allows the user to hear the immediate surroundings of any tree in a 5-mile radius. Useful for scouts. As a reward for creative play, casting speak with dead on the trumpet allows you to listen using any piece of wooden construction (This property is not revealed by an identify spell)"
8,"A dagger with a glass blade as strong as steel. Looking through the glass highlights any hidden items (Weapons, money, vials of poison) somebody is hiding on them."
9,"A longbow made out of bone white wood that feels unnaturally light. The first arrow fired from it casts silence (one minute duration) centered on where it landed, regardless of whether it hit the intended target or not. Breaking the arrow ends the silence early. This ability recharges after every short or long rest."
10,"A whip that appears to be made from feathers with a bird's claw at the tip. The whip is completely silent, and the claw can be used to make any slight of hand check from up to 10ft away at the cost of +5 to the DC of the check."
11,"Paradox Goggles - Once per day, using a bonus action activates these goggles. For the next minute, any attacks against you have disadvantage. They don't make your vision better, but the enemy vision worse!"
12,"Fast-Acting Crossbow - A thick leather bracer with a crossbow hiding within (1d6 Hidden, Ranged 30/60). As a reaction to an ally taking an opportunity attack, you may activate the crossbow to fire a bolt at the enemy. If your attack hits, the enemies opportunity attack has disadvantage. Reloads after a short or long rest."
13,"Sneak-ers - This black and purple shoes are perfect for any rogue. Your footsteps cannot be heard as you gain expertise in stealth. (If you have expertise in stealth, you instead gain advantage on all stealth checks.)"
14,"Doppelganger's Cloak - Once per day, as a bonus action, you can turn invisible and move 5 feet, all while leaving a clone of yourself which replicates anything you do for the next minute. Any attacks against your clone cause it to disappear and you are revealed."
15,An item that allows them to grant the Finesse tag to a wider variety of weapons. Possibly similar to a Ruby of the War Mage where it eats an attunement slot and takes at least ten minutes to attach to a weapon? Maybe use the restrictions for Monks for what weapons are eligible?
16,"A minor magic weapon, a classic Rapier in base form, can use a Bonus Action to change damage types while keeping other stats. Maybe between the physical types for no cost other than action economy, and a number of daily charges to do a subset of elemental ones for one strike?"
17,"A gold coin that seems to reflect light in an unnatural and mesmerizing way. When interacting with someone outside of combat, you can begin playing with the coin (Juggling between fingers, flicking it between hands etc.) in an attempt to mesmerize them. The target must make a Wisdom saving throw contested by a Dexterity (Sleight of hand) check or a Dexterity (Performance) check of your choice. On a failed save, the target is stunned by the performance and is completely focused on the coin, ignoring anybody or anything around them. This effect ends after one minute, when you end the coin tricks, or if the target is touched/attacked. On a successful save, the target has no hint you tried to mesmerize them."
18,"The Peephole Ring - looks like an ordinary ring with the symbol of an eye engraved in it. When the ring is placed against any solid surface it acts as a peephole. Peephole can be used to see through up to 3ft of solid matter. Note there is no actual hole in the surface the ring only allows you to see through it as if there was a peephole at the location of the ring. Also note the ring doesn't provide any light, so if it is dark on the other side, all you will see is darkness."
19,"A cloth sheet with small weights in the corners. Folds out to 6 ft. by 6 ft. Embroidery on one side is a bird taking flight. Embroidery on the opposite side is feathers. When placed upon any relatively flat surface its magic is activated. Bird face up - Acts as a trampoline. Anyone jumping on it can add up to 15 ft. to their vertical jump height. Anyone skilled at jumping such as an acrobat can add 25 ft. to their vertical jump. Also prevent damage from falling on it from up to 30 ft. but will bounce the person at least 1/2 the fall distance. Feathers face up - Acts as a giant pile of feathers. Jump or fall from any height, as long as you land on the cloth, you take no damage."
20,"Gloves of Fast Draw - can teleport any item on your person to your hand. Attunement may be necessary. Grip the items you want to fast draw. Hold them the way you want them to appear in your hand, and say the command word 'remember'. Any time after an item has been attuned, it can be reflexively teleported to your hand. Note: The item must be on your person for this to work."
21,"A bag of rocks that, when thrown, deal 1D4 damage and count as simple ranged weapons with the finesse property. These rocks return to the bag when thrown. The item has 4 charges and regains 1D4 charges when a creature is killed by one of the rocks, 1 charge can be expended after landing a hit with the stone to force the target to make a DC 10 intelligence check or forget taking any damage from the stones."
22,"Ledarra - A sentient weapon possessed by the greatest sand rider in the land, Addla Brekwynn. The weapon is a +1 magical scimitar that when held seems to lighten the weight in the wielders knees. They gain advantage on initiative checks, and if they beat the highest enemy initiative roll, it gains an additional +1 for that combat."
23,Lucky Deck - A magical deck of cards enabling the user to pick which cards are drawn. (Requires Attunement)
24,"Bennett’s Grips - A pair of rough, fingerless gloves enchanted to provide double proficiency bonus to slight of hand and climb checks. If wearer is not proficient, they simply gain their proficiency bonus."
25,"Clockwork Distract-o-matic - A windable device about the size of a pocket watch that emits dancing lights and loud noises. Can be used as a stationary object, or set to roll forward in a straight line 30 ft. before activating."
26,"Clockwork Obfuscator - This belt-clip device provides 30 seconds per day of dimness to the wearer. Not invisible, but forcing disadvantage on attacks against them and any attempt to spot them."
27,Bartleby's Fabulous Cap - A rather ostentatious hat that draws the eye. Gives the wearer advantage on Slight of Hand checks against anyone that is currently paying attention to them.
28,Dagger of distraction - A crystal blue glass dagger that rests in a matching sheath. When the dagger thrown at a target or object it shatters and makes a noise of glass shattering audible up to 20ft. After it shatters it leaves no trace of its presence and the dagger magically reforms in the sheath.
29,"Amulet of Filtering - Requires attunement. 3 charges. As an action, activate. For 10 minutes, any creature unaware of your presence must make a DC10+CHA wisdom check or fail to notice you, regardless of line of sight. Gains 1d4-1 charges at dawn."
30,"Spider-Climbing Set - a pair of soft gloves and boots, made out of spider leather. Once a day they can grant the wearer the effects of the Spider Climb spell, but only for ten minutes."
31,"X-Ray Specs - a fine jeweler's loupe which can be used once a day to peer beyond an opaque material, granting the user advantage on picking the lock and detecting or disarming the trap."
32,"Mother's Coin - A coin that, once attuned, you can always track. Typically placed inside a shipment of treasure, or given to an individual as a homing beacon. Sometimes it's used to follow targets back to a secret headquarters."
33,"Ghost Cloak - A slimy, translucent, pale cloak that allows the wearer to leap through solid objects thrice per day and provides bonuses to all stealth rolls while worn. When worn, treat the wearer as undead when dealing with all spells, magic, and effects."
34,Ring of the Doppelganger - 3/day you can cast Disguise Self as an action by turning the ring on your finger.
35,The Loose Stone - a small whiskey stone. Anyone who drinks from a glass containing it must answer the next two questions asked truthfully. A charisma check is needed to remember answering the questions.
36,"Flashgang - A small metal canister that glows faintly and is surprisingly heavy due to its thoroughly condensed magic. As an action, a creature can press the button capping the Flashgang to open it and toss it up to 30 feet away. Dust immediately begins to spill out of the canister when it is opened, and upon contact with the ground it billows into a cloud that quickly takes the form of 3d4 armed goons. These goons are fragile, simple constructs made of dust and are unable to attack, physically interact with the environment, or make sounds other than sinister grunting and chuckling. The constructs possess limited intelligence, and are capable of little more than obeying and reacting to the user’s words in a shady-looking manner. If a goon takes damage or 10 minutes have passed since it’s creation, the construct bursts into a puff of dust and is scattered across the wind."
37,"The White Key - Once per day, the attuned user can momentarily will the metal of this key to become white-hot. By being attuned to it, it does not burn the user, but would severely burn anyone else who touched it. Inserting the key into a lock and then causing it to become white hot will melt the interior of the locking mechanism, which will cause it to flow and reform around the key. This makes it such that the key now fits the lock and opens it. It can't melt certain arcane metals, however."
38,"Assassin's Blade of Hasty Escapes - (requires attunement) - A fine dagger made of some strange metal. It's covered with intricate runes. The blade can be used as a normal dagger. Twice per day, the user can activate the blade, to cast Invisibility on the user as a 2nd level spell and to immediately be teleported 1d6+3 times 50 feet away in a random direction (1d4, on a 1, north, 2, east, 3, south, 4, west). Note: Only to be used in the direst of emergencies."
39,Rapier of Resizing - A magic rapier with three sizes. You can make the rapier one size larger or one size smaller as an action. In large size the rapier acts as an unnaturally sturdy ten-foot pole. In medium size it acts as a regular magic rapier. In small size the rapier can pass off as an earring or other piece of jewelry.
40,"Batfang - An exquisitely crafted dagger made out of a material somewhere between metal and bone. When a rogue attuned to this dagger uses their sneak attack feature against a creature, the creature takes 2d6 extra necrotic damage and the rogue regains an amount of hit points equal to the necrotic damage dealt."
41,"Gloves of the Talent Thief - Whenever a creature attuned to these gloves successfully pickpockets another creature (or steals anything of that creatures person, like a strand of hair) the creature attuned to these gloves can choose to become proficient in on skill that the other creature was proficient in for 8 hours. During this time, the creature that was pickpocketed is no longer proficient in the stolen skill."
42,"Unending Coil - A coil of rope that is one foot in diameter, weighs 2 pounds when coiled, and is stronger than steel. When uncoiled fully, the rope is 200 feet long."
43,"The Hog's Sniffer - A garish porcelain replica of a hog's snout with a leather cord. When attached to the thief's face, it replaces the user's nose with a genuine hog's snout. They can now smell treasure within 200 feet, able to pinpoint gold, precious gems, and enchanted items with great accuracy. It cannot be removed for two days after attaching, constantly oozes snot, snorts loudly, and sends the user's appetite skyrocketing. The DM may require self-control saves to keep the user from stuffing his or her face with whatever is nearby (hogs will eat nearly anything, so feel free to get creative and gross with this)."
44,"Nether Bag - Looks like perfectly ordinary linen bag. However, peculiar enchantments had been imbued into it's very fabric, so it works like Bag of holding with the exception that it requires attunement to put things inside, or out, and nobody but the attuned can pull out things that the attuned put in. Any number of people can be attuned to the bag, each of them having their own carry limit of the bag. If one dies, while having their belongings in the nether bag, the possessions are teleported to their nearest living relative, unless the last will doesn't specify otherwise. If one overfills their inventory space in the bag, their contents, and only theirs are spilled around the nine hells."
45,Lockpickers Gauntlets - Grant use of silence and knock once per every long rest.
46,"Monocle of Appraising - while wearing this monocle you can see the worth of different objects. The more expensive the object will seem to sparkle. Additional, even the shiniest objects will seem dull if they are cheap."
47,"Dagger's Brand - a red green in the hilt of this dagger is the only sign of anything magical about it. When this dagger is pressed flat against skin and given the command word, the entire dagger turns red hot and sinks into your skin dealing 2d6 fire damage. Once it has sunk in, the area is left with a scar that appears to be years old. At any time after this, you may say the command word again and summon the dagger back."
48,"The Proud Purse - A coin purse. Copper or silver coins placed inside will appear to be more valuable after being retrieved from the purse (copper appears to be silver and silver appears to be gold.) After 1d4 minutes, or if returned to the purse, they disappear altogether. Any other coins or jewels placed inside the coin purse also disappear; so don't get it mixed up with your other ones."
49,"Weaponized Throwing Cards - (mage, attuned) - Each card comes from a common playing card deck: Spades: Weapons. Damage or status dealers. Kine has an 8 of Spades that creates 8 knives dealing 1d10 damage to up to 8 targets in a cone. Hearts: healing/status removal Diamonds: Damage resistance or counter/reaction magic. Mine has an Ace of Diamonds that can protect against 1 otherwise successful attack. Clubs: utility. 10 of clubs might reveal a trap or weakness, confuse or blind a foe. These can be scattered around your world and found one at a time. The drive to collect and obtain them can even be a narrative hook at times."
50,"Wrist Pocket - (rare item, requires attunement) - A simple leather cuff, with arcane sigils burned into the inside. While attuned, the wearer of this cuff has access to a tiny pocket dimension, capable of holding one small item (no larger than 1 cubic foot). As a bonus action, the wearer can stow a small item from their cuffed hand into the pocket dimension, using a slight gesture. Also, as a bonus action, the wearer can make a gesture to summon the item from the pocket dimension into their cuffed hand, as long as their hand is empty. Sleight of Hand checks made to conceal the triggering gesture have advantage."
51,"Skulker's Shawl - (very rare item, requires attunement) - This hooded black garment is sewn from shadowsilk spun from the Shadowfell. When attuned, the wearer gains the Skulker feat. Because of the residual despair of the Shadowfell clinging to this garment, the wearer has disadvantage on death saving throws while attuned, as do any creatures within a 10-foot radius of the wearer."
52,"Smoking Bead - (uncommon item) - Smoking beads are typically found in quantities of 2d4 + 2 beads. This milky-black glass bead contains smoke drawn from the paraelemental plane of smoke. When broken, the bead releases the smoke, which fills an area of 5 cubic feet. Natural and magical wind have no effect on the smoke. Anyone starting their turn in the smoke must succeed on a DC15 constitution saving throw, or is blinded for 1 minute."
53,"Scry Fly - (tiny construct and earring, requires attunement) - This clockwork construct is a masterwork, life-size replica of a horse fly, crafted by tinker gnomes. It is paired to a simple silver earring, which requires attunement. While attuned, the wearer of the earring can control the Scry Fly as an action, and can hear anything within a 30 ft. radius of the Scry Fly. The Scry Fly has a Dexterity of 15 (+2), is proficient in stealth (+4), an AC of 14, a flying speed of 40 ft. and walking speed of 10 ft., and 1 hit point. It adheres to all surfaces, and the Detect Magic spell reveals it to be magical."
54,"Blink Dart - (very rare item, requires attunement) - This dart is a sharpened rod crafted of dragonwood, a hardwood found in the Feywild. Once thrown, the attuned wielder can use a bonus action to teleport to the dart's location as per the Blink spell. You vanish from your current plane at the end of your turn, and appear at a random location in the Feywild. At the start of your next turn, you reappear in your original plane, in the location of the Blink Dart, holding it in your hand. (Upon reappearing, you must succeed on a DC10 Wisdom saving throw, or forget everything you experienced while in the Feywild.)"
55,"Coat of disguise - At first appearing as a ragged and torn jacket, when examined it clearly has a bit of magic. Flip the coat inside out to produce an effective costume for your current grift. The same coat will never be seen twice."
56,"Acrobat's Baton of Four - (very rare, requires attunement) -This unassuming black cane has 1d8+1 charges, which are regained each evening at dusk. While attuned, the wielder can use a bonus action to expend one charge to speak one of four command words: Viper: The baton transforms into a +1 weighted whip. Monkey: The baton transforms into a +1 nunchaku. Tiger: The baton transforms into a +1 quarterstaff. Crane: The baton transforms into a grappling hook attached to 100 feet of silk rope. The baton's transformation lasts for 1 hour, or the wielder can end the transformation by using a bonus action to speak another command word."
57,"Acrobat's Cape - (uncommon, requires attunement) - This silk-lined cape has a dramatic collar and silver embroidery. While attuned, the wearer automatically reduces falling damage by half, and can use a reaction to make an Acrobatics check (DC15) to negate falling damage entirely, and move up to 10 feet upon landing. Also, while attuned, the wearer ignores difficult terrain."
58,"Map of the Maverick - How can you be so sure what’s in that cave? A small weathered piece of rolled parchment contained within a case made from a human femur bone. When removed and consulted with a DC15 Dungeoneering check, acts as a live-updating map of the bearer’s surroundings. For every five points by which the player beats the check, the map can reveal more detail. A new check can be made every minute. DC20: Traps and hazards. DC25: Secret rooms and hidden passages. DC30: Enemy locations and species. DC35: Enemy classes and names. DC40: Enemy strengths and weaknesses. Requires attunement. Note: The magic of this map can be defeated by antidivination spells like Nondetection and Mind Blank—DM’s discretion."
59,"Arcane Dampeners - How do we sneak up on a Wizard? This small pair of identical silver rods is intricately carved with ornate runes. The end of each rod has a button. When a rod is held in each hand and the buttons are held down, all magic items and effects active on the bearer become undetectable by Detect Magic and other similar effects for as long as the rods are held. True Sight reveals an illusion surrounding the bearer. Releasing either rod ends the effect."
60,"Last Pipe - Do you have any last requests before you are hanged, Thief? - To all inspection, this appears to be an ordinary smoker’s pipe, packed with a fresh and fragrant tobacco. When lit and smoked, the user comes under the effect of Gaseous Form for 10 minutes. One charge renewed daily at dawn."
61,"Coin of Illusion - A coin which can be used as an action to create a major illusion, but is used up in the process."
62,"Amulet of the Anonymous - An Amulet that, when our on, causes the wearer to possess a unique skill of visual slipperiness. All creatures within the vicinity, including allies, must make a DC 15 Wisdom saving throw at the beginning of their turns or forget about the wearer’s presence. On a success, they are aware of the wearer for that turn."
63,Shadow Stalker's Mask - This mask can cast Darkness centered on the wearer once per day. The wearer can see through this darkness while wearing this mask.
64,"A hand crossbow fires bolts that deal force damage instead of physical bolts. Can hold a maximum of 2d4+2 charges and gains 1d4 charges every dawn. Firing the bow takes a charge, and you can use an additional charge to give yourself advantage on the attack. These force bolts leave no marking of physical damage."
65,The Security Card - An enchanted playing card that makes someone immune to setting off the alarm spell while the card is on their person.
66,Instant Mimic - If you touch this non descriptive cube to any tiny object and speak it's command word it will instantly form in to a replica of that object that looks and feels identical. A DC 15 investigation check will reveal that the duplicate is a fake. After 1d4 days the object will revert back to it's original form.
67,A whiskey tumbler that shows an X-ray view of a humanoids circulatory system when you look through the bottom of the glass. Seeing a creature's heart rate through this manner gives advantage on insight checks to see if they are lying.
68,"Moonshadow Blade - a dagger or rapier that has the phases of the moon inlaid into the hilt. It allows the user to cast blink at the end of their turn and reappear at the beginning. (Think just 1 teleport per charge) 6 charges. It has to lay unsheathed under the night’s sky to recharge, gaining 1d4 charges if the moon is waxing and 1d6 if it’s waning and gains a full charge under the new moon."
69,"Blur Knife - requires attunement. When this throwing knife is used to make an attack, the attuned wielder can choose to either make the attack with advantage or make two different kinds of attacks (say, stabbing someone and throwing it simultaneously). This special use of the knife causes it to disappear for 1d6+3 hours, and then it reappears in the attuned wielder's possession. After it disappears, regardless of whatever actions the attuned wielder takes, a replacement weapon can be drawn for free. It might also have some other magic in it."
70,"Flask of Induced Paralysis - requires attunement. Most liquids (DM's discretion) placed in this flask for 10 minutes turn into a clear liquid with no odor discernible to most sentient races. The effective dosage is ten drops for an adult human of average weight. The person attuned to the flask can will someone (or everyone) who has taken at least a full dose within the last 48 hours to be paralyzed for 10 minutes per dose, or release someone who has been paralyzed by this effect from paralysis. A person can be repeatedly paralyzed for as many doses as they've taken within the last 48 hours. Certain creatures with a keen sense of smell, as well as magical means of detecting poison, can discern the presence of the flask's liquid."
71,"Flask of Induced Sleep - as above, except it makes the afflicted go to sleep for 1 hour per dose, and the effective dosage is twenty-four drops for an adult human of average weight. Someone sleeping can still be roused by ordinary means, though they'll be drowsy- and nothing is stopping the attuned user from putting them back to sleep if they took more than one dose!"
72,"Gyroscopic Timepiece - a necklace pendant with a small glass ball as the hang-down piece. Within the ball, a miniature round clock revolves continually. The clock tells time to the second accurately. Whosoever wears it can use a single charge as a free action at the beginning of their turn to describe two turns' worth of actions. The first, 'phantom turn' is a full set of actions for that turn that everyone who isn't a deity or otherwise sufficiently removed from the mundane world perceives- however, this action does not actually occur. The second, 'real turn' actually occurs, but is not perceived by and cannot be reacted to by anyone who isn't a deity or otherwise sufficiently removed from the mundane world. The real turn is described after everyone else in the round has made their turn. The pendant stores two charges; when they are expired, the clock inside liquefies, and a new miniature round clock has to be inserted in to regain the charges."
73,"Fingerless Glove - A glove made from Displacer Beast hide with the fingers cut off at the second knuckle. Putting the glove on, it seems to make the wearer's fingers disappear. However they are actually projected to a point of the user's choosing within 30ft. The teleported fingers can feel and take damage as they would normally"
74,"Cloak of the Barlgura - (requires attunement, very rare) - This cloak is made of the fur of a demonic Barlgura. While you wear this cloak with its hood up, Wisdom (Perception) checks made to see you have disadvantage. And you have advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide, as the cloak's fur shifts to camouflage you. Pulling the hood up or down requires an action. Additionally, the attuned can cast Invisibility once per long rest on themselves by using a power word. To anyone that casts Detect Evil and Good or uses a similar ability, you will register as an evil fiend because of the demon hide the cloak is made out of and you have bound yourself to. To demons you are viewed as a fellow demon until such time as the user takes hostile action. Devils are immediately hostile to a user."
75,"Mute Crowbar - uncommon magic item just like a classic crowbar, but never ever causes any sound. For when those thieves’ tools don't work but you still wish to be pretty stealthy. Also, good for silent splatter kills (would allow sneak attack with that)."
76,"Cape of the Coward - rare magic item (requires attunement) this cape is covered by some pretty powerful magic to grant the wearer safe escape when followed or chased. By bumping into someone, you can activate the cape's magic to exchange the appearances of yours and his/hers clothes. The magic lasts for a minute. You also get advantage on Stealth and Acrobatics checks whilst fleeing."
77,"Roof Runner's Glove - Once per short rest you can automatically succeed on a saving throw or skill check to grab onto a ledge, rope, or other object to prevent yourself from falling."
78,"Releasing Hook - This three-pronged grappling hook responds to a command word which causes its prongs to retract, allowing it to detach from whatever it's hooked onto. The command word can be whispered from a distance, so long as it is audible to any part of the rope attached to the hook."
79,"Breathweed - Chewing on this herb produces breathable air, allowing one to remain for an extended time underwater or inside a compartment or extra dimensional space, which would otherwise cause suffocation. One dose is sufficient to last two hours."
80,Decisive Coin - This enchanted coin is able to reorient itself in midair in response to the words 'Heads' and 'Tails.' If flipped from a person's left hand it will land with the called side up. If flipped from a person's right hand it will land with the called side down.
81,"Palming Glove - A small slit in the palm of this glove opens into an extra dimensional space, a cube six inches to a side."
82,Commoner’s Touch - A set of gloves that will turn all gold pieces they have touched into copper pieces for one hour. They turn back after the time has passed. A remove curse can dispel the effect.
83,A string with a rock stuck to the end. The string is as strong as rope. When the string touches the rock they magically fuse and the connection is near impossible to break.
84,"Timed Immovable Rod - This immovable rod has a dial on each end. On one setting you twists the dial to have the immovable rod activate from between 1 to 10 seconds after you twist the dial. On the other you set the how long the immovable rod remains active with three settings 1 minute, 1 hour, and 1 day respectively. The Rod has a loop in the center to tie or hook an object or person to it."
85,"The Counting Eye - This small white marble colored like a human eye can be placed on any pile to measure a specific aspect of the pile, which will show up as floating red numbers projected from the pupil of the marble. You can ask how many of a specific thing is in the pile like number of gold coins in a pile of various coins, the overall weight of the entire pile, and the approximate worth of everything in the pile in gold pieces. Often used by smugglers to verify payment and that the goods delivered are not counterfeit. The marble has a 17 investigation score for determining if an object is counterfeit or not."
86,"Contraband Concealment Container - When this item is created the creator selects a material, spice, coin, or any other mundane material and a command word. The container has a seemingly endless source of whatever mundane object is selected, though it deteriorates from existence within a day of being removed from the container. When the command word is spoken and the container is opened, it reveals completely different contents. Stored in an extraplanar space, the container may store any amount that would make sense for the size of the container, and then by shutting the container, the bag will store the contents away until the command word is spoken again."
87,"The Discrete Dagger - When attuned to, this dagger shifts to the ethereal plane and becomes insubstantial for all other creatures other than the owner or ethereal creatures. As an action, it may be returned to the material plane and used normally. This dagger is a favorite among high profile assassins, as it cannot be found during a pat down."
88,"Dream Catcher - Very rare (requires attunement) - When a creature who speaks at least one language falls asleep with their head at least 10 feet from the Dream Catcher, if the user is on the same plane of existence and also asleep, they may enter that creature's dreams by making a successful Intelligence (Slight of Hand) check. Once inside the Dream, the user must pass an Intelligence (Stealth) check to stay undetected. They can make an Intelligence (Investigation) check to search and shape the dream to find the answer to one question. The DC of these checks is the creature's Intelligence score. The user may then leave the Dream or make a second Intelligence (Slight of Hand) check to repeat this process but this and all subsequent checks are made with disadvantage. If the user fails a check, they lose 1d4 Intelligence until dawn and must attempt the check again."
89,"The Ear Cuff of Attention - When worn, the ear cuff heats up whenever the wearer is being observed by a creature they are unaware of. The intensity of the warmth scales with the intensity of observation. (The stipulations keep party members from activating it constantly and keep it from going off at full strength every time someone's eyes pass over them in a crowd.)"
90,"A Get Out of Jail Free Card - An empyreal blessed card that only appears to be a simple rectangle card made of stock paper. For one use only, presenting this card to a guard will release the bearer from imprisonment. This card may be kept until needed or sold. (DC 25 Charisma check or according to DM's discretion)"
91,"The Titan in the Shadow - A crown made of Ebony tipped with shards of obsidian. When attuned, the user can whisper it's command word to grow one size (as they would under the effects of the enlarge spell) and become cloaked in shadows. While they are in this state, they can use the hide action to blend into the shadows cast by any object larger than they are (such as a building or a tree)."
92,Spry Skates - A pair of roller skates. Adds a +10 to speed when worn and allows the user to leave a creature's range as part of their movement without invoking an attack of opportunity as long as they did not start their movement inside the creatures range. Useful if you want to strike fast but stay out of harms way.
93,"The Fireman's Friend - A small metal handheld canister that can silently cast the Control Flame Cantrip at will, but only the extinguish flames effect."
94,"Ariyi-Ino - An extremely lightweight +2 spear of elven design. When you twist the handle, it expands to a full sized pike and vice versa. It's lightweight design allows it to be used as a finesse weapon."
95,"A round, flat disk that, when thrown, will create a minor illusion to distract from looking at the thrower’s direction. The harder the rogue is able to throw the disk, the greater the distraction."
96,A container of dark sludge that camouflages the wearer against the night sky.
97,A living lock pick set that you have to pass a charisma check of 14 to convince it to pick a lock. If the roll is failed it becomes rude and angsty.
98,"Unassuming Box - This brown box made of an unknown and lightweight material has the odd property of being hard to pay any mind to, even in environments where it would stand out. Hiding inside of the box makes you nearly invisible when still. Moving while under the box makes no noise, but someone seeing the box move will make you automatically fails all Stealth checks. The box can be folded in order to fit inside a bag. Both folding and unfolding the box takes 5 minutes, each. For some reason, a large red ! is inscribed on the sides."
99,"A piece of paper that, when someone dead's name is written on a line at the top, makes anyone who reads it thinks that it is the will/journal/letter/etc. of the name written. This effect wears off after 2 hours or when someone affected makes a successful Wisdom saving throw. The paper's affects only work once, and stop having any effect on people after 10 hours past writing it or when the paper is destroyed."
100,Glove of Rope Summoning - A thick leather glove with a hempen rope pattern etched into the back. Pointing at an object and speaking the command word causes a 50ft rope to launch from the glove and tie itself to the object. Once tied to an object the user can pull the object to them or use the rope to climb up steep climbs. Any damage to the rope causes it to disappear.

d100,Entry

1,An Axe-Throwing (or similar projectile) Contest. (Dexterity Check)
2,An Archery competition. The contestants are trying to shoot an apple off the head of a gnome. (Dexterity Check)
3,Raffle Lottery. 1gp to enter!
4,A great Tug of War over a pit of mud. (Strength Check)
5,"A booth disguised as a pie stall that buys and sells illegal goods (drugs, banned religious symbols, etc.)"
6,Arm Wrestling Contest. (Strength Check)
7,"A Pick Pocketing Challenge. Everyone attending the fair is given a bright piece of cloth to be put in their belt/pocket. If you keep hold of yours, you win a prize at the end of the day. If you are able to pickpocket other people's cloth, then you could win the grand prize. (Sleight of Hand Check)"
8,An ale-drinking contest. (Constitution Check)
9,"Fencing with wooden swords. Three hits, and you're out! (Standard Combat Rules)"
10,Lockpicking contest - while blindfolded! (Thieves Tools Check)
11,Rope Climbing Competition. (Dexterity or Strength Check)
12,A Log Balancing contest. The winners of the contest face off in a pool filled with water elementals. (Dexterity Check)
13,A music contest between individual performers or 'bands'. (Performance Check)
14,Bull riding contest. Stay on the longest to win! (Athletics or Strength Check)
15,A scavenger hunt. A special golden coin has been hidden somewhere on the fairgrounds. Can you find it? (Perception Check)
16,Lumberjack Games. Who is the fastest at chopping these massive logs? (Strength Check)
17,Exotic Animal Show. Come see fantastical animals from all across the realm!
18,Animal races. Which one do you bet on to win the race?
19,A man dressed in a jester costume is sitting above a dunk tank. Can you hit the target?
20,"Loose Livestock Catching (Oiled Pig, Chickens, Etc.) (Strength, Dexterity, or Animal Handling Check)"
21,Carriage Rides (for the kids)
22,Carriage Rides (romantic for couples)
23,Horse Racing. Race against some of the most experienced horse-riders in the realm! (Animal Handling Check)
24,"Gambling/Card/Dice Games. This is most likely illegal, so they take place in a closed tent in the back of the fair."
25,The Big Hammer And Bell Contest. (Strength Check)
26,House of Mirrors. Can you escape? (Perception Check)
27,Jousting on Horseback. Can you knock your opponent off their horse? (Animal Handling and Dexterity Check)
28,"Every year, a particularly skilled Minotaur makes a hedge maze. She is a gardener and spends the season making labyrinths for the townsfolks festival. There is a plate of cookies in the center, and her calf (young son) is patrolling inside to help people who become lost. The Minotaur charges 1 copper for entry, and donates the money to charity."
29,Bobbing for apples. Some apples are injected with a polymorph potion.
30,Wife/Husband-Carrying Race. (Dexterity/Strength Check)
31,Dance Competition. (Performance Check)
32,Pie Baking Competition. (Cooking Check)
33,A Popcorn/Kettlecorn Booth. Don't let it get stuck in your teeth!
34,"A Hair Braiding Booth. Any braid you like, even those fancy Elven ones!"
35,"Prize Vegetable Contests (largest pumpkin, heaviest cabbage, tastiest tomato, hottest pepper, sweetest corn, juiciest peach, etc.)"
36,"Liar's Contest: spin the wildest tale you can think of and the crowd votes on the best one based on believability, complexity and incredibility. (Bluff/Deception Check)"
37,The tent of 'long rests' in 20 minutes!
38,Prettiest Baby Pageant.
39,Deep-Fried Foods on a Stick.
40,Puppet show using Minor Illusion and Mage Hand.
41,A booth selling Potions of Thirst Quenching (water).
42,"A bored-looking devil sitting at a booth with a sign saying 'Anything you want: $Your Soul'. Be very careful here, as what he offers starts out seeming great, but eventually is just terrible."
43,A “Guess the mimic” game. Players are brought into a fake house and must determine which object is the mimic. Maybe the mimic is the house itself? (Perception Check)
44,A Guess Your Weight stand.
45,A rogue favorite; Hide and Seek competition. (Stealth Check)
46,"Cunning Linguists; replace a language at random (pick a random; non-common, language the player knows replace it randomly from a list as large as you want, if they crit, they keep their original language, if they crit fail, they lose their original language, and gain nothing)"
47,"Feat for Curse? (Your player can buy an extra feat, but they are stricken with a curse. Can be a strong curse or as simple as a new character flaw.)"
48,Greased Pole Climbing contest - there's a tree trunk liberally coated in grease and the first person to reach the top is the winner. Everyone tries to climb at the same time.
49,There is a kenku hermit from the neighboring hills who has a large wagon filled with nuts and berries. They are selling a handfull for 1 copper each.
50,There is a wizard who is running a -make your own potion- stall. The wizard will help players make any potion they want at half price.
51,"There is a beefy half orc chef selling 2gp firewater, an ale that gives +1 strength for 1d8 hours to anyone with a con modifier of +3 or higher."
52,The town guard is giving free fighting lessons for able-bodied citizens. There is a list where the festival goers write their contact information for the towns militia.
53,A gnome trinket master is making clockwork trinkets for the townsfolk.
54,The local Thieves Guild is smuggling cheap ale off the back of a wagon and will pay the party to help them carry the items before the guard comes back with a warrant.
55,The mayor is letting the winner of the children's foot race hit him with a custard pie.
56,"There is a booth where town officials can be found. The booth is a guard station, water station, first aid station, lost and found, (one random item from the party can be found here) and fair management station. There is a donation jar. The officials have a few errands they ask of the party such as collecting late dues from some of the fairground shopkeepers."
57,A 'Fungeon' full of 'Funsters' and 'Treasure'. Look out for the 'Traps' and the pickpockets.
58,"A literal haunted house of past carnival workers, so they know not kill anyone."
59,"Gurning competition. (Seriously, it's a real thing. Compete to pull the most ridiculous face.) (Performance Check)"
60,Living tower - teams of (your party size) need to build the highest tower out of their bodies. (Athletics Check)
61,A Fortune Telling Booth.
62,"Cooking contest - player(s) need to prepare some exotic dish and the only thing they know is the dish name. (Cooking Check - and perhaps History, to see if they recognize the meal?)"
63,Tag a Guard - you need to kick a guard and not get caught.
64,"A table with bored guards looking for recruits, people are clearly walking around it."
65,"A chess-playing chicken. 5 silvers to play, beat the chicken and double your money. (Intelligence Check)"
66,Bake sale for the local orphanage.
67,Displays of the local children’s artwork.
68,Goldfish Scooping. Some say the goldfish are actually polymorphed fair-goers who were caught cheating some of the other games.
69,Exotic Nuts and Fruits Stall.
70,Sitting-On-Top-Of-A-10ft-Wooden-Pole-Competition. (Athletics Check)
71,"A divination stand with an old lady with a crystal ball... Or she reads the lines in your hands... Either way, it's up to the DM whether it's true divination."
72,A stall that sells mildly enchanted jewelry that can change colors at will.
73,"A lavender-skinned tiefling does palm readings while their (Make both parties male or female, whichever you choose) dwarven friend polishes weapons and armor for people who are having their palms read."
74,A nearby tent displays various works of art. The artists are there for questions about their pieces.
75,A team of 3-5 people are allowed to compete in an eating contest against a local hill giant. The hill giant rolls 2d100. Each player rolls 1d20+Con. Whichever team's total is higher wins the contest. The party becomes fatigued for 24 hours if they compete.
76,"A Magician. (No actual magic, just smoke and mirrors)"
77,"A Mead Maker's Competition. They're short a couple of judges, and will offer the job to anyone who looks to have a strong constitution."
78,A simple cloth is laid out in front of a famous local hermit. He magically mends objects and performs low level spells at a deep discount. He uses the money to buy supplies so he can avoid town the rest of the year.
79,"A booth is staffed by students from a local magic academy. They take requests for magic assistance but can't really do anything themselves. An appropriate level mage will visit each customer within a few days. The students get a cut of the revenue towards their tuition, so they can be very pushy."
80,A Sparring Ring. Locals can take out whatever frustration they've had on each other over the past year here!
81,A Fancy Dress Competition. Tailors get to show off what they've been working on over the past year.
82,"A small number of goblins can occasionally be seen sneaking around the fair, sometimes they will be spotted oh-ing and ah-ing at some of the attractions. If questioned, they flee. If found again later and questioned, they are doing research for their own Carnival."
83,There are temporary shrines from many different Gods and Goddesses. They can be prayed to for small blessings.
84,"A group of local Living Trees are handing out apples and giving advice in their deep voices such as 'make sure you plant the seeds', and 'don't play with fire'."
85,A group of Yuan-Ti have set up an exotic (lightly cursed) amulet shop.
86,Some sprites and pixies are letting people fly in exchange for hunting equipment. They have a large furnace with a baby firenewt inside where they dispose of the hunting gear.
87,The town guard is hosting a make-your-own banner booth. An enchanter can be hired to enchant the banner.
88,"There is a costume booth where a master tailor, doppelganger, illusionist, and thief work together to give anyone a makeover, haircut, or costume of their choosing."
89,Exotic pet rock dealer. (1 in D8 rocks is an elemental pet!)
90,"There is a Slap-a-Guard booth. Once a year, the citizens can pay 50gp to slap a guard in the face that they don't like. The players can choose any guard they've met. There is a small ledger where the citizens can write their names and become a guard. The guards are instructed to say 'If you think you're better than me, then you can prove it by signing the ledger'."
91,"A male half-orc conjurer, a female tiefling monster hunter, and a female elf beast trainer are all locals in the town. Each year they meet for drinks at the fair, before competing in their own special game: Ooze Cruise. Each participant is required to bring an ooze to the event. 3 premade stone towers are erected at the outskirts of the fair. The participants climb some scaffolding to place their ooze at the top. The first ooze to eat their way to the bottom of the tower wins. Over the past few years, this selfmade competition has attracted the attention of the townsfolk who enjoy betting on the competition."
92,Underwater Wrestling. Contestants meet in a large glass tank. They both have to wrestle underwater. The first to surface loses. Some towns use a giant octopus as a champion for an added twist. (Strength/Dexterity Check)
93,"Test your might booth; Challengers are tasked to lift an impossibly heavy rock for 1G, if you can the prize is 50g. (Strength Check)"
94,"Midsommar Maypole: Here, drink this. Bad things start happening."
95,Filthy-Filch'N: The local Thieves Guild branch's secret booth. The local constabulary have had items reverse pick pocketed into their pouches. Bring them all back for a prize! (Sleight of Hand Check)
96,Greased Pole Climbing contest - there's a tree trunk liberally coated in grease and the first person to reach the top is the winner. Everyone tries to climb at the same time. (Athletics Check)
97,Gnome Tossing contest - a gnome suitable dressed in padding and helmet can be tossed. The aim is to toss the gnome furthest or to a target. Various bonuses or penalties could be applied to the thrower. Does the gnome co-operate or not ? There are rules in some other subreddits on gnome tossing.
98,"Mimic Or Money. 10gp per game. Players are sat in front of 3 chests and are told to choose one to open. Upon choosing one, the gamemaster will reveal one mimic and ask if they would like to change their answer to the other chest. If the player chooses correctly, they get what they bet plus 10. Upon choosing incorrectly, players have to fight a mimic, the battle lasts until the mimic dies or the player gets defeated, however, the player shouldn't die."
99,The Cheese Race: Out run the old cheeses rolling down the hill.
100,"A Freak Show. Come see some of the most gruesome sights in the realms! (It's all illusion spells, don't worry!)"

d100,Entry

1,"A treehouse that is seemingly abandoned. After a short climb, the characters can enter the treehouse via a rope ladder. Inside is a journal and notes that describe a hunter searching for a great beast that can very easily blend in with it's surroundings. With a high enough perception check, a player can notice that something on the ceiling begins to move..."
2,An iceberg with a magic item of frost frozen at the center.
3,The results of a band of goblins robbing a traveling tailor. The trees and bushes are filled with a huge number of clothes and hats.
4,All the plants in this area make sound as the wind blows past them to attract pollinating bats instead bees.
5,The huge piles of white petals here make this clearing look like a snowy wonderland.
6,A tunnel drilled under a redwood tree.
7,Moving city tree.
8,"Abandoned elven hideout and cache hidden behind walls of brambles, vines, and thorns."
9,Eight different trees twisted together to create a shelter underneath.
10,A shimmering pond in an oak grove known for making anyone who drinks from it lucky for three days.
11,A sleeping stone giant covered in pine trees.
12,"An area where nothing grows, not even druid magic can grow plant life there."
13,A strange circle of stones.
14,A large tree with a door.
15,A wise and magical owl which sits on a trunk and speaks with the players.
16,A buried corpse. The players meet the murderer in the next city.
17,An inconspicuous looking patch of forest in which time passes considerably faster or slower. It is very difficult to notice this change.
18,"A patch of forest where there appear to be several deer, who upon further inspection are just artistically placed vines."
19,"A clearing with a single bush in its center, and the bush is wildly different in colors than anything else in the area (ie, purple leaves, or something similar)."
20,"Stones laid out like an arrow, or maybe a big X."
21,An archway woven together by trees or tree branches leading to a small temple.
22,"A grove of saplings that were intentionally seeded among piles of humanoid bones, creating natural effigies that rattle in the wind."
23,Trees that float several feet off the ground. Inspection reveals shimmering glyphs under the bark.
24,"Land that, as the party walks across it, produces a hollow sound, like the soil beneath holds a cavern or void."
25,A large herd of owlbear asleep in a berry patch. Blue stains cover their beaks and they cannot be easily roused (location likely under fey influence).
26,"A fairy ring which the locals say becomes an entryway to the Feywild once in a blue moon, and to the Shadowfell every thirteenth blue moon."
27,A glade where the sounds of the forest fade away to silence. Then you realize you can't hear your footsteps any longer. Or your voices...
28,"A beautiful, clear stream. The water is lightly sparkling, and produces an intoxicating, soporific effect when consumed."
29,An enormous pit trap into which you might stumble. Can you escape before whoever set it - or whatever they set it to catch - returns? Or perhaps turn the sprung trap into an ambush for the hunters?
30,"The slimy tracks of a giant snail. If followed, the creature is encountered trying to devour a humongous mushroom. Who knows what kind of treasure it might have accidently swallowed."
31,Overgrown tomb of an ancient Warrior. Can't imagine a cozier home for a mimic.
32,"A troll guarding a broken down caravan, claiming to be a soldier with 'fish-shell odors'."
33,"A plantation of mystic sage, that has not been abandoned for long. As soon as the players set foot into the field, voices are heard from a few meters away."
34,"A cozy hut with a lit fire and enough food to feed a whole family. It's also a giant man-eating plant, but they'll figure that out soon enough."
35,A small grassy clearing that has one area that the grass refuses to grow. The area is in the shape of a man lying down.
36,A grove where there is a large odd looking black tree. The tree vaguely seems to have a face towards its top and the branches seem to resemble horns. Where the tree's 'chest' would be is a pristine katana stabbed into it.
37,A stump of a tree that has its rings form a chest/game board.
38,"A pond that reflects an different area of the woods you are in. If you jump in, you arrive in a different pond. The fish and the wild in the pond do not seem to be affected."
39,The corpse of a giant that has a tree growing through its chest.
40,"Grove a trees that appear to be transparent slightly. Upon closer inspection, the trees are made of flawless crystals."
41,A large Cedar tree that has a man stuck to it via an arrow. The man appears to be a sleep.
42,"A man in all green plate armor meditating in front of a pine tree. The man has slightly green skin and grass green hair. Upon trying to wake him, your vision wavers for a moment and the man is now a skeleton with plant life growing all over and in it."
43,"A small wooden bridge that allows passage over an even smaller creek. There is an ogre manning the bridge with a sign in crude common 'Please pay the toll.' If the party chooses to kill the ogre, they will find a license from the local lord's bridge builders to allow better travel in the area and that the ogre can collect a toll. They will also find a note that says 'Have fun at work today, daddy' as well as a what looks like a laminated picture of a small ogre girl and female ogre."
44,"A part of the forest that is in a perpetual winter. Upon inspection, the forest is protected by a barrier and is attempting to repair itself after a particularly bad drought."
45,A portion of the woods seems to make corridors and visibility is limited to only within the 'rooms' the corridors lead to. Choosing the correct corridor allows the party to go further into the woods but any wrong turn and they are lead back to the entrance area they first entered this section of the woods.
46,A river flows from a cave that opens into a spring. On the far side from the opening there is an obelisk that exudes this water in the center of an ancient Stone Giants Palm.
47,"A tree with a sword stuck in it. On closer inspection there are several skeletons at the foot of the tree, the skulls of the skeletons are missing."
48,"Two gnomes sitting next to each other, singing in a language no one can understand. The language is made up, and the gnomes will not pay attention to you until you speak gibberish at them."
49,"A pond with delicious and clear water you can step in and drink, but you can't take any of the water in a container, nor can you drop anything into the water."
50,"A trinket, buried below very conspicuous leaves. It belongs to no one, and no one will buy it from you."
51,"An old oak tree that has, somehow, grown around into a spiral. On the trunk is a handprint in the bark that looks as if someone pressed their palm into soft clay. Most who place their hand in the print feel nothing but cold wood, but a chosen few feel warmth and a heartbeat."
52,"A large tree that looks like a birch, except it is shaped like a perfect sphere with small leaf-bearing twigs poking out around the top. Surrounding the tree are dozens of hand-sized runestones laying in the ground. There is no grass within the circle, or any other plants besides the tree, and animals and insects abruptly change direction before crossing into the circle."
53,"A coconut tree, which is odd since coconuts are not native to the region. On the ground below the tree is a single coconut with a hole cut in the side, with flies swarming around it. Do you dare look inside?"
54,A dismembered dryad in a clearing of thorns. The party may hear distant music and cheering. Upon further investigation the party finds a camp of satyrs torturing a dryad and or other fey.
55,A grove of trees with orange leaves and vines growing from them. Harvesting a pound of the vines and succeeding a DC20 Alchemist's Tools check allows one to create an elixir that turns the imbiber into a dryad for an hour.
56,"A grove with 12-feet-tall lilies. A DC13 perception check allows one to hear noises coming from inside one such lily. Upon inspection, an elven couple is inside the flower having fun in the pollen."
57,"A massive tree contains a spiral staircase made of rocky steps stuck into the wood. Climbing the staircase leads to a flat-topped branch with a stone circle (à là Stonehenge) on it. Reading the elven runes explains that it is a gateway to the Beastlands, but can only be opened by expending a 7th level spell slot."
58,"A massive tree with crystal-like leaves, causing the light that passes through the canopy to be split into rainbow hues. A Warlock of the Archfey sits beneath the tree, speaking to a dryad who gives him orders from his patron."
59,"Next to a creek you find about a dozen human-shaped trees. The trees are actually people who were attacked by a 'wooden basilisk', a variant of the species."
60,"A bosk of trees with faces carved on them. As you walk by it you always have a feeling that the woodland sounds are whispers, and that someone is watching you. Creatures cannot benefit from long rests made in this bosk."
61,"A clearing in the woods reveals a small pond. Underneath this pond there is a cave, with an air chamber where the body of a long-dead king was buried."
62,"A massive tree, grown horizontally over a waterfall, serves as the only bridge in the area. A band of satyrs demands a toll for crossing, claiming their fey magic is what made the tree grow this way, and therefore they deserve a toll."
63,"A clearing with 8 complete totems, and a ninth one being constructed by centaurs to honor their recently-deceased chieftain."
64,A waterfall with its water flowing up.
65,The road opens into an entrance to the Feywild.
66,"Hidden among the trees there is a small fortress. If investigated, the fort is garrisoned by elves who guard an entrance into the Underdark."
67,A chest hidden amongst a group of trees and bushes. Upon closer inspection the adventurers will find out that everything but the chest is a pack of mimics of varying sizes trying to lure in adventurers. The chest is locked and filled with whatever was in it before the mimics killed the previous owner.
68,"Abandoned castle, fort, temple, farmhouse, ruins, tower, etc. overgrown with plant and animal life."
69,"Giant Statue, overgrown with plants."
70,"Giant hole in the ground going straight down hundreds of feet, possible cave entrance at bottom."
71,Bioluminescent forest. At night many of the plants glow in the dark.
72,Garden of Flowers - area of the forest covered in colorful flowers.
73,"Area full of giant shells. Giant insect shell, seashells, snail shells, crab shells, etc. overgrown with plants."
74,"A perfectly circular clearing where no trees grow, symbols carved in the the trees surrounding it."
75,"In the distance the sound of a flute instrument can be heard. After pushing through a rather thick layer of brush the clearing offers an interesting sight. A group of woodland animals circle around an ancient tree stump, sitting upon it is a small boy playing a flute. When you approach he stops playing and the animals flee into the brush and he fades into nothing."
76,"An empty lumberjacks camp, in which all the tents are filled with potted plants. A powerful fey Lord was visiting the camp and decided to turn the wood cutters into plants and saplings."
77,"A hot spring in a clearing that attracts nearby wanderers into bathing within. It's actually a pool of bubbling acid with black pudding at the bottom to grab a hold of anyone who tried to bathe in the spring. The spring is mystically enchanted to appear as a calm hot spring instead of bubbling acid littered with bones, with an additional enchantment to charm passersby into taking a dip."
78,A large boulder covered in a lush moss that exudes vitality. Taking a short rest next to the boulder maximizes your hit dice.
79,"A small pond, inhabited by a lone pixie. She offers you a reward if you 'play' with her."
80,"Above you is a network of crisscrossing vines. They are taut. Occasionally a vine ends with a piece of thick draping cloth on it. (Upon investigation they are found to be primative zip-lines) If the party was loud, they are spotted by the locals."
81,"While resting after your battle with the beasts of the forest (insert PC) leans against a weeping tree. It sounds in a yawning creak of wood as the roots unearth themselves. It moves slightly back causing (insert PC name) to tip slightly over. 'Pardon me, small one, your blade was poking me.'"
82,"A geometrically-shaped part of the forest that is a literal desert, including climate and all. that part of the forest functions on its own."
83,"We stumbled upon a long-abandoned pit trap with broken stakes at the bottom! It had partially crumbled, but was still quite dangerous."
84,We found an area where every leaf and blade of grass was blue and glowed in the dark! It was attracting attention (enemies sort of attention) for miles!
85,We came across a clearing filled with huge flytrap plants! One of them tried to eat the wizard's familiar!
86,We stumbled across a giant's farm! It had the biggest carrots any of us had ever seen! (I hope the farmer isn't around.)
87,"We found a portal to the Feywild under the roots of a gigantic tree! There were sprites everywhere, trying to chase us off!"
88,"Shambling into a clearing, you see a wild-eyed stag, permanently locked in combat with the decapitated head of another stag. As though this was not gruesome enough, the head is animated through dark magic and roaring an unholy roar of anguish, driving the living stag mad."
89,A circle of mushrooms which is on a layline or offers another type of benefit to wizards who sit in it.
90,A tar pit in which odd long mushrooms grow.
91,A crashed airship which is stuck in a few trees and has grown in.
92,A floating tree amongst the canopy. No difference from the other trees other than the fact that it is hovering inches from the ground with seemingly no roots - only a stump.
93,A clearing with a deep pond. At the center of the pond is a golden statue. The statue is a magical bathysphere that shrinks the party and delivers them to a shrunken sunken city.
94,"The ground trembles beneath you, trees turn and tilt, and panicked cries of creatures ring through the woods as the ground lifts up on the back of a colossal, ancient tortoise. Centuries of loam and soil slide from the shell and the creatures waking croak rings through the air."
95,A giant sinkhole hidden by illusion magic that covers a forest gnome city within the hole.
96,"A rough stone statue of a cyclops. Unbeknownst to the party, this statue is actually a petrified Cyclops."
97,"Two creatures locked in vines and frozen in time with magic. A powerful Centaur shaman and a greedy looking human. They are frozen in the form of fighting, the Human holds a beautiful looking chest under his arm, most likely the Centaurs riches."
98,"You find a small spring surrounded by old ruins of what seemed to be some kind of church. The water is extremely cold. Once per short rest, when you drink the water, you can choose to end an effect on you, such as charmed or poisoned, or heal 1d6. For every minute you are sitting in the water, you must make a DC 14 Constitution check. On a success, you can end an effect on you and heal 1d6. On a fail, the water is too cold for you and you have to get out. You can’t get the same effects until you finish a short or long rest"
99,A mysterious glowing fountain that has two koi swimming in a constant circle (one black with a white dot one white with a black dot).
100,"A completely pink tree. The tree isn't only pink on the outside, the leaves, and even the inside of the tree, are all shades of pink."

d100,Entry

1,"Orb of Planar Melding: This orb allows the user to overlap planes of existence through a complex ritual. Whether razing cities by combining it with the plane of fire, or using it to open up the world to an army of demons and undead, the scale provides dangerous power. Destroyed by: utilizing the orb to combine opposites such as the Positive and Negative Energy planes, or Feywild and Shadow Planes together, the artifact will implode taking a radius of 200 ft with it."
2,"Ark of Famine: At first glance, this wooden box appears much like a child’s coffin – a long wooden box, completely unadorned, full of sand and designed to be carried by two pallbearers using handles over the shoulders. However, the Ark houses the collective spirits of those killed by hunger and crop blights long ago. Drawing on these spirits, the Ark consumes any and all crop or plant matter in a maddened hunt for nourishment. Destroyed by: Wherever it goes, any plant matter or food within 300 feet is destroyed and cannot be recovered. Prying the Ark open and filling it with water will destroy it."
3,"Heart of Magic: The still beating heart of one of the most powerful sorcerers who ever lived. The magic in their blood still powers the heart. The heart can be used as a spellcasting focus, and when used as such, all spells made with the heart count as two levels above the level of the spellslot used. Flaw- the heart is still unstable, and all physical damage done directly to the heart causes the heart to violently react. When this happens, the heart gives off a violent blast of magical energy, dealing radiant damage equivalent to the original attack in a 20ft radius sphere. If attacked by necrotic damage this ability does not trigger, and the heart takes double damage. Destroyed by: The heart has 100 HP total. If the heart reaches 0 due to physical damage, it violently collapses, dealing 10d10 radiant damage in a 300ft sphere. If the heart reaches 0 due to necrotic damage, the heart slowly begins to shrivel up, until it is about the size of a grape, at which point it collapses into dust."
4,"Eldritch Rod: Created by an unknowable primordial deity, it appears to be composed of dark oak into the shape of a long tendril. While the wielder may use it to have an additional 10 spell slots, any spell cast through it will have a wild effect to it of an evil nature. The woes of the user do not end there however, the rod with also wrap around the wrist of the caster permanently until a way to remove it is found. The longer one is attached, the more evil and chaotic in nature they will become, slowly connecting their mind to that of the incomprehensible deity that created the rod. This link could have it omniscient benefits however if the user seeks to please their new god. Destroyed by: The cursed wielder must cut off the arm that is binded, burning it along with the cursed artifact. If it is simply burned without sacrifice the character will have angered the deity, if it is not purified in flame the mental link will remain."
5,"Gravestone of Decay: By chiseling a name of a person, place, or concept into the stone, it will begin to wither away across the material plane and die. A person will take minutes, whereas a city could take months or years, and entire concepts (freedom, justice, etc.) could take centuries. Destroyed by: The only way to destroy it is for someone to selflessly carve their own name into the stone."
6,"The Key: It looks and feels very much like a normal key, but emits an intense magical aura. The key can open any door in existence. It can even be used, to create and open a door out of thin air that leads to where it’s user desires. It’s more than a mere teleport. It can be used to enter a parallel room in which the user is able to see the world without anyone seeing him. He can’t collide or interact with anything in the “real” world though. Even traveling between universes and realities is possible. The magical power can also be used to cast spells. Destroyed by: Since once you’ve unlocked a normal door, it stays unlocked, the doors that the Key opens stay open until you have left back through the door you have created. Thus, the only way to destroy the Key would be to open the room where you are unable to interact with anything, and then leave the key in that room, and then close the door. This would render the key stuck in a place which no longer exists. Bonus points for going into multiple layers of that room and leaving it deeper."
7,"The Rift Sigil: A sigil of an arcane rune, which, when placed on a surface creates a hole which expands 1d10 feet in all directions each week. The hole is an extradimensional rift which consumes objects and creatures that it encounters: the passage is one way, and creatures and objects that pass through it are destroyed. A creature may willingly enter the hole: a creature that does so survives the trip, as their willpower keeps them from being consumed by the void on the other side. They take 1d10 psychic damage per minute while here. Destroyed by: A runestone exists inside this realm: it is sentient, and has the following statistics. Rift Sigil Rune: AC 18, HP 100, SPD 0 S:10 D:10 C:18 I:22 W:22 C:22 Damage Immunities: Bludgeoning, Slashing, and Piercing damage made by nonmagical weapons, and psychic damage. Actions: At will: Confusion, Slow, Eldritch Blast (3 Blasts) Intelligence is the spellcasting ability for these spells."
8,"Spear of Thirst: This spear is +4 to hit and does 1d12 piercing damage plus 1d12 necrotic damage as it sucks fluids from the victim’s body. On a critical hit, the victim must make a DC 15 CON save or die, drained to a husk. The wielder gets 1d4 temporary HP each time it kills someone with a spear. Destroyed by: Submerge it in the body of a radiant creature like an angel. Or an undead: it can’t drink from the undead."
9,"Heart of Gold: An artifact that if the user holding it kills an unwilling good oriented user, all evil oriented characters in the nearby vicinity have a one in (number) chance of becoming increasingly good natured depending on how much good of a person the sacrifice was (up to DM’s discretion). However, this also works the other way around. Introduction: The protagonist could be either extreme good or extreme evil character killing like-oriented individuals. The PCs then find out about the heart. Destroyed by: The heart loses HP for each willing participant (depending on how much of a good or bad person they were). The heart originally starts with 1HP but increases with every unwilling participant of the ritual by 1 point."
10,"The Orb of Omniscience: Like a crystal ball with telepathy but anybody can use it any number of times per day. Best not to be destroyed, best if the party takes it for their own use. Destroyed by: Can be melted in lava."
11,"Sarcophagus of Rejuvenation: This ancient sarcophagus has incredible regenerative properties. Spending a short rest inside it restores all hitpoints and cures minor diseases. Spending a 8h inside of it can bring a man back from the brink of death, regenerate limbs and halt aging. Spending time inside of it without any injuries starts to drain a person’s humanity and they move closer to chaotic evil alignment. Destroyed by: The sarcophagus power can be disabled by placing a wonderus item of legendary power that’s intent is to cause harm. After that the sarcophagus is able to be destroyed by a magical weapon."
12,"Metallurgist’s Bible: This ancient book conveys upon it’s user the ability to make masterworks of war. Any weapon crafted with this artifact’s knowledge does double the amount of damage dice (1d6 shortsword –> 2d6). To retain this feature, the weapon must be soaked in the blood of an ancient red dragon once a year. Destroyed by: For every point of damage it takes, it immediately heals the same amount, and conjures a spectral weapon that seeks out it’s attacker and does the same amount of damage back. The only way to destroy it is to burn it in the fires of the forge where it’s first weapon was created."
13,"Clockwork Heart: While in the process of creating the Modrons, Primus created a clockwork heart. Since this heart wasn’t useful to making the Modrons he set it aside and forgot about it. In order to attune to this artifact you must hold it pressed to your heart during a short rest. The artifact slowly enters your chest and fuses with your heart. Unattuning kills the person because the artifact can’t be unfused from their heart. While attuned to this artifact you have advantage on death saving throws. Also you can open up a portal that leads to the plane of Mechanus or back to the material plane from Mechanus once per day. Modrons recognize Primus’ creation and will avoid fights with the person attuned the clockwork heart unless they are attacked. Once a creature has attuned to the Clockwork Heart, they begin to gradually lose the ability to feel emotion and instead become more logical. The process is slow, but speeds up significantly whenever an aspect of the heart is used (such as opening a portal to Mechanus or making a death saving throw only because of the advantage provided by the artifact). At the end of the process, the creature will be completely unable to experience any emotion and will become a logic-centered being. Destroyed by: The heart most be brought to a plane of chaos, tainting it. Once the heart is tainted, it can be destroyed as a normal object."
14,"The Ring of Infinite Wisdom: While wearing this ring you can tap into some of it’s infinite wisdom by sucking your thumb. While you are tapping into the ring’s wisdom in this way your current wisdom score increases by 10 up to 30 temporarily, and you even receive premonitions of the future. Destroyed by: The ring can only be destroyed in a 10 minute bath in the tub of the demon prince of foolishness."
15,"The Brain Staff: A long wooden staff with a pink orb on one end. It can efortlessly control the minds of any monster it’s user desires, and is able to control an infinite number of creatures at once. The user can give it simple instructions that the beast will follow until the day it dies, and keep commanding it. Destroyed by: The Staff is also able to control the minds of creatures emotionally bound to people, like pets and familiars. However, the person who the creature was bound with can attempt to break the spell by making the monster recognize him/her (which would take some time and Wisdom checks). When that happens, both the staff and it’s user are overpowered and explode in a 300 feet radius."
16,"The Infinite Locket: This mysterious pendant, when viewed, takes the viewer to a realm of their own memories, where they relive their favorite memories. The pendant slowly drains them of their life until nothing remains. Destroyed by: Must be opened and viewed to work. Because it can’t move, it’s very easy to become lost. If somebody closes the pendant, the spell is broken, but the victim is left with a feeling of longing."
17,"The Mark of Ancestry: This wrapping bonds to the user, allowing them commune with all those who have bore the mark before. They lend the user their wisdom and muscle memory, allowing the user to perform feats beyond that of their skill. Destroyed by: The mark technically steals a portion of the user’s soul when used. Additionally, if the mark becomes unbonded from a user, that user can never bond with the mark again, as their soul has already been collected."
18,"The Machiavellian Mirror: The Machiavellian Mirror allows viewers to cast spells through it or freely scry on any location or being the viewers are knowledgeable of. The mirror itself can also cast various mind control spells on targets visible in the mirror at the user’s behest (DM’s discretion on which and the number of uses per day). The insidiousness is multiplied because the mirror’s control is such that targets may not realize that they were influenced by a spell, especially if they were only instructed to do reasonable things. The mirror can even be used to disadvantage the charisma and wisdom saving throws of targets visible in it if needed. Other Suggestions: The Machiavellian Mirror’s owner should be intelligent and paranoid, someone who takes all sorts of mundane and magical precautions to prevent the mirror from being visible and even having a reflection, especially when not in use. The owner should also take precautions to make sure they are knowledgeable of even potential threats, and that they are visible and findable at all times (e.g. command a ring of spies). Destroyed by: If the Machiavellian Mirror can “see” its own reflection clearly, (e.g. another mirror or smooth surface polished finely is brought into close range in appropriate lighting conditions), the mirror spontaneously smashes itself into smithereens and becomes useless. Viewing another mirror through the Machiavellian Mirror does not count."
19,"Seed of Iron: As the first seed of the first iron-wood tree, the small seed holds the power of a strong nature deity. Whenever the seed is allowed to touch dirt, the seed immediately burrows into the earth. In a 2000ft radius, a forest of iron wood trees will begin to grow. They require no water and will dig through anything in their way. When the forest is done growing, a small tree made entirely of iron will appear in the center of the forest. In a year it will produce another seed of iron. The forest is neither good nor evil but flows with wild magic and may become home of fey creatures if given time. Destroyed by: If delt 75 points of damage the seed will be destroyed. When the forest is in the possess of growing the seed will stay 30 feet below where it was planted, surrounded by a hostile plant creature made of ironwood. If killed , the seed with die and the forest will die with it."
20,"The Dionysus Rod: The wielder of this item can loosen the inhibitions of anybody the wielder sees fit. Promiscuity, risk, eccentricity, and general impulsiveness. The more the rod is used, the more the wielder slips into madness, eventually being unable to control the rod’s power Destroyed by: It can only be broken by those who have broken free from the rod’s will. Once you restrain yourself from the rod’s call to impulse, snapping the rod in two is as simple as finding the holder."
21,"Chalice of Plenty: A solid gold wine chalice encrusted with a diamond and ruby rim. The one who possesses this item will find themselves increasingly successful in matters of finance and trade. The chalice influences its owner to become increasingly gluttonous in all aspects, to the point of eventual demise. Destroyed by: The curse can be lifted if its owner uses the wealth gained strictly for benevolent purposes, which reverses the effect. To fully destroy the item, the wielder must adopt an ascetic lifestyle and resist temptation until their death, upon which the chalice will melt down into liquid gold and evaporate."
22,"The Crown of Hosts: A silver crown with six vertical ornate peaks that reach straight up one foot, each inset with a translucent green sphere. Each sphere houses the trapped spirit of a spellcaster that slightly glows within. The wearer of the crown must be a spellcaster and can command the spirits to cast whatever spells they knew in life. This can be potentially devastating, allowing 6 actions, plus the spellcaster’s, per turn. The wearer knows the power level of each of the spirits, but does not know the exact number of spells they had memorized when they died. The trapped spirits regenerate spells at the usual rate afterwards. Destroyed by: If any of the trapped spellcasters uses its last spell, it is immediately freed. The soul of the wearer of the crown is sucked into the vacant gem and becomes its new slave."
23,"The Cornucopia Of Plentiful Harvest: A small wooden cornucopia, which, at the dawn of each day, fills itself magically with whatever food the possessor desires. Any food summoned this way to the cornucopia is taken from somewhere else in the world, and is magically enhanced, giving a +4 bonus to a stat based on the food. (Dm’s choice on what food will give what stat) Destroyed by: Placing food into the Cornucopia removes its magic."
24,"The Most Humorous Jest in the Plane: A small scrap of non-magical paper, which has a Jest written upon it. When it is read by a user, it causes them to be consumed by unstoppable laughter which continues until their death. Upon viewing a single word of the Jest, the user must succeed at a DC 15 will save or read the entire Jest. The user reads the Jest in their native language. Destroyed by: The Jest is easily torn, if the user can pass a DC 20 will save (read the Jest on Failure). The Jest only loses the ability to cause mayhem if torn into multiple pieces which cannot be reassembled (E.g. tearing the Jest into 10 pieces, and then burying them at various locations)."
25,"Eroded River Rock: This mundane looking flat rock has been washed smooth by eons of swift rapids flowing over it. It still drips as if recently removed from the river that created it. It has been imbued with the power and fury of the river. When water is dropped onto it, the rock accelerates the water into a powerful stream which has the power to erode any non-magical surface. Combined with the Create Water spell, the effects can be devastating. Locks cut through in seconds, buildings eroded to the foundation in minutes, landscapes sculpted in hours, mountain passes cut in days. Used offensively, the jets of water can do serious damage to anyone foolish enough to get in the way. Destroyed by: If Destroy Water is cast upon it while it is not carried, the stone will erode into a fine sand. Alternatively, placing the stone back into the river where it was created will cause the stone to erode."
26,Devil’s Crown: Summons and enslaves fiends. Radiant damage is doubled against the wearer. Destroyed by: Exorcism.
27,"Maab’s Scepter: Summons and enslaves Fey. Cold Steel deals double damage against wearer. Destroyed by: Iron Cage, Iron Axe."
28,"Ice Queen’s Coronet: A slow creeping madness envelopes the wearer. Ice powers and penguin henchmen named “Gunther” come with it. Destroyed by: Volcano, Fire Elemental Temple (bonus points if you keep a shard to destroy no.4 with it.)"
29,"Fire King’s Daughter: A bottle stores a female fire djinn princess. Control of fire and summoning fire elementals. Destroyed by: Sink, Glacier, Water Elemental Temple."
30,"Wood from the Handle of Death’s Scythe: Renders the owner safe from Death. No matter how much damage they take, they will safely return to normal in 24 hours, with 1 HP. The piece of wood, when held, gives the user a sense of cautious invulnerability (re: doesn’t make ’em go crazy with “I’m INVINCIBLLLLEEEE!”). It’s a small, pebble-like smooth dark brown hunk of wood, as it has been through countless owners throughout the beginning of time; if examined closely, flecks of what could be described as “black glass slivers” seem to pulse through the wood. Destroyed by: the more “resurrections”, the less memories the user has (a set number between player and DM, which can go up any number between play sessions, but cannot go up if the Wood was used during a play session). When the user cannot remember who they are, they are turned into an unsaveable, unresurrectable zombie, that can only be killed by normal means (re: immune to magics)."
31,"Time’s Hourglass: This item bonds to the first person to touch it. Once that person dies, the item becomes able to bond again. The user may activate the hourglass, and a small portion of sand will run out, allowing them to perceive time in reverse, and thus, changing the future. Destroyed by: There is a finite amount of sand in the hourglass. With each use, more sand runs out, and when the last grain falls, the user ceases to be."
32,"The Zealous Mace: this +1 mace does an extra 2d6 damage to any fiendish or abyssal creature. If the welder kills a fiendish of abyssal creature with this weapon, they must make a wisdom save (dc 15) or fall under the mace’s power. The next time they see any evil creature, they will be compelled to strike them down. In addition to this, the mace become a +2 and does 2d6 damage to any evil creature. Upon killing an evil individual, they must make another wisdom save. If they fail, the mace becomes a +3 weapon and the wielder is compelled to kill any neutral or evil creature it sees from there on out, behaving more like a bloodthirsty monster than a humanoid. If they kill 20 creature, the transform into either an imp or a dretch (their choice) and can never use the mace again. Destroyed by: The mace has no power over someone until they kill a fiendish or abyssal creature. After this, removing the mace from the person’s possession and casting lesser restoration will cure them. After they kill a neutral creature, a greater restoration spell will be needed. However, they will have an urge to get back to the mace for 1d6 days after a restoration spell is cast."
33,"The Statue of Ananamura: This 3 foot pure-silver statue of a dragon shines with radiance in the day time and any aristocrat would love to have it. But this is not so at night. One the first night the statue is in a new residence of someone who willing accepted it, the dragon might have appeared to have moved slightly, taking on a permanent pose in the morning. The next few, the own will hear whispers and see things moving in the shadows (must make a fear resistance check nightly, dc 11). After 10 days, the dragon fully comes to life at night and tries to consume any living being in the home. Killing this dragon will work but the statue will reappear unharmed at sunrise, and the dragon will wrathfully sneak out the one who killed it the next night. Destroyed by: If the dragon is awake, you must give the statue away to someone else. If it not awake, you must bury it in an area affected by the Hallow spell. Digging the statue up will cause the process to start again."
34,"The Fragile Urn: An ornate urn filled with ash, the user may call upon a deceased ancestor and ask a singular question. For each question asked, a crack grows onto the urn. This process repeats as cracks continue to appear in the Urn. Destroyed by: The integrity of the Urn will eventually be compromised from all the cracks and will break, rendering it permanently destroyed. No one knows how many cracks the urn can withstand before breaking."
35,"Footwear of Eclectic Gaits: A normal pair of footwear, or so it seems. The wearer must attempt a dexterity roll anytime they wish to walk (difficulty 6, and increases by 1 each day, to a maximum of 15). If the roll is not attempted, or is unsuccessful, the wearer is cursed to a walk in a very strange manner (add difficulty to social/dexterity rolls at the DM’s discretion. Destroyed by: The only way to destroy this artifact is to fully submerge the wearer in water."
36,"The Lunar Sickle: A sickle with a glowing white blade shaped like the moon, and an embelished navy blue hilt adorned with marble stars. Requires attunement, and can be attuned to by any class. Unlike standard sickles, if attuned, it deals 1d10 melee damage while still being Light and a simple weapon, and can be used as a spellcasting focus. Once per day if attuned, user can activate its Lunar Shine ability, revealing the moon as huge and bright in the sky, sending 10d10 radiant damage in a 20 foot radius, affecting only enemies within that radius. Destroyed by: The Lunar Sickle can be destroyed only by a 1d4 hour long ritual to purposely destroy it, which must begin at midnight. this ritual must be performed by someone attuned to the item."
37,"The War Fan of Admiral Huztin: Enchanted with the soul of a fused elemental, the war fan summons violent storms over any target area. Should the war fan approach its own storm, a 100ft rad. circle of perfect weather surrounds it. Destroyed by: Used to conquer countless pirates at sea, the admiral doomed its power to the water depths in case of his defeat– the fan disintegrates when submerged in water."
38,"Bracelet of Mesnoarh: Seven large ovals of onyx set in forged gold adorn the ring of Mesnoarh’s bracelet. The bracelet shrinks tight around the arm of user, siphoning life energy to maintain the heavy cost of a demon trapped in each stone– their names scribed in the gold. Destroyed by: To remove the bracelet, the arm must be severed."
39,"Helm of the Chisolm: Deep beneath the dunes of Shiftine, where the Chisolm plains once lay, graze forever still 1,000 head of templeforged bull. Siege machines of awesome destruction, these creatures wait for call towards the next crusade by they that don the Helm. Destroyed by: Only a martyr can extinguish their path."
40,"The Hugfeld Globe: Mysteries surround this articulate map of the world, as fraud and misinformation frame almost every border of its model. What is known for sure, to much disdain far and wide, is that every line drawn upon it erects a wall. Destroyed by: Luckily, the accompanying Hugfeld Pen has been missing for quite a while."
41,"Unlucky Rabbit’s Foot: This dessicated lagomorph appendage is highly saught by hags. Sliced clean from a forest spirit with a necrotic blade, the foot leaves blight in its steps with every hop. Destroyed by: The foot can only be stopped by returning it to the spirit."
42,The Book of Togrutl: A book written in a completely alien language that few beings in reality can read. A creature can decipher the language of the book if he/she spends 8 hours a day studying the book for one year and passes a dc25 intelligence check. If a creature who has successfully deciphered the language reads the book he/she unlocks the power to travel between planes of existence with a thought. Destroyed by: The Book of Togrutl can only be destroyed be a specific magical furnace in an ancient library.
43,"The Dagger of God Killing: This weapon is a +3 dagger. If you speak the name of a god while you are on the same plane of existence as them they become mortal for 24 hours, this ability can only be used once per day, while a god is mortal in this way any attack with this weapon against them deals an extra 3d6 necrotic damage. Destroyed by: They say the Dagger of God Killing can only be destroyed by a powerful force older than the gods themselves."
44,"Soulrender: The Soulrender is a small iron sphere with necromantic sigils and black diamonds on the outside. If a humanoid spends 6 hours chanting an incantation while holding the Soulrender, the sphere emits a magical blast that goes through all nonmagical barriers and most magical barriers in a 600 foot radius. Any humanoid within the blast has its soul torn from it’s body and dies, the blast is otherwise harmless. The Soulrender survives the blast, the person who activated it doesn’t. Destroyed by: The Soulrender is indestructible unless it is robbed of it’s magic by an extremely powerful healing spell."
45,"Doom Moon: All ability modifiers receive a -1 penalty that cannot be removed within the moon’s area of effect. Those who pray to the moon are unaffected by this drain, but doing so permanently charms the supplicant to treat the moon cult as friends to be trusted and allies to be obeyed. (This effect overcomes usual resistances to charm) An ominous moon that never rises or sets is draining the mental and physical vitality of those in its range to fuel the birth of a false god. There is quite a bit of time before the moon-egg hatches, but scholars of esoteric mystery believe the draining effect will become worse, and moon will eventually draw in every living thing for a thousand miles with a siren call so they can be drained to nothing. Destroyed by: Kill the moon! The cult’s base is an ancient pike-like tower of wondrous metal directly below the false moon. The spire fortress is the perfect needle to pierce the shell and puncture the embryo. The Resistance has perfected a bit of supermagic that can launch the whole building like a rocket. They just need someone to sneak in there and plant it."
46,"The Wand of Endless Bubbles: A sickly green wand with a circle at one end. When swung in an arcing manor for the first time a spew of bubbles shoot out. The user quickly finds that the flow of bubbles isn’t stopping no matter how they move it after, and the rate they are coming out is only increasing at an accelerated rate. Each bubble deals one damage of a random type on whatever they pop upon. Destroyed by: While the User could simple abandon the wand, at the rate the bubbles are created they would quickly envelop the land it resides in. A temporary solution is to trap the end in a case of some kind that instantly pops the bubbles such as a sword sheath, sack, or wrapping of some kind. However, the container used would slowly dissolve. A permanent solution is to either destroying or deforming the ring through which the bubbles form, or finding a way to remove its magic."
47,"The Front Line: A shield that is 3/4 the size of who ever is wielding it. Grants +3 AC. While wielding it the creature can grip it with two hands and slam it into the ground to create a barrier that extends in a semicircle in front of them and upwards to from a half dome (dimensions are up to the DM). This barrier can absorb damage ( amount absorbed is up to the DM , I used 10 + 3*level). Attacks made against the barrier always hit. To maintain the barrier the weirder must not move. Destroyed by: The barrier is destroyed when enough damage has been done to it. The shield can be destroyed by by any normal means."
48,"The Portal Wand: a wand with the ability to shoot little energy balls that create two-way portals, into anywhere the user wants. Destroyed by: Can be destroyed by making a ball cross a portal, overwhelming space-time, and teleporting anything in a 30ft radius around the wand into an unreachable pocket dimension."
49,"The Teleorb: a massive purple orb. Can be attuned to by performing an odd psionic ritual, and the person attuned to it can use telekinetic powers to control any willing creature or innanimate object with less than a tonne of mass. Destroyed by: Can be destroyed by making the user try to use the telekinesis on the orb itself, making both the orb and the user disintegrate in a million particles."
50,"The DNA Sword: a sword with two razor sharp, helicoidal blades, that emit a faint green glow. On the other side of the hilt, there is a steel needle. The sword does 3d8 + 3 base damage, and stores the genome of the creatures killed with it. The needle can then be used in an egg, or womb, to fuse the baby’s DNA with one or more stored DNAs, leading to the birth of a hybrid. Destroyed by: The sword cannot understand hybrid DNA. If used to kill a hybrid creature, it will shatter, and release deadly radiation, growing massive tumors in any creatures in a 60ft radius."
51,"The Weeping Blade: This gleaming dagger shines brightly, the way someone’s eyes do before they cry. When it is drawn, it becomes covered in tears. These tears are a deadly poison, that can kill anything within a day. Even god’s have fallen to this weapon’s touch. Worse, once it becomes attuned to its wielder, it will always return to their hand. To wield this weapon, one must have known great sorrow, and must sacrifice something precious and irreplaceable to it. Destroyed by: The rightful wielder of the Weeping Blade must hold it while something happens that causes the wielder to feel nothing but joy."
52,"The Cometstaff: Supposedly tipped with a piece of celestial iron, this staff grants its wielder power over the heavens, allowing them to summon storms, control the winds, and even call down lightning or meteors. Aside from making its wielder an unstoppable force on the battlefield, it can be used to water crops, or keep ships safe at sea. Indeed, those uses are what it prefers, and if only used for war and conquest, it may fail at a critical hour. Destroyed by: The Cometstaff must be brought to the very depths of the earth and be burned in the fire of a dragon’s breath. The dragon must never have seen the sun."
53,"The Unbreakable Buckler (Fallen Relic – AVERNUS/ABJURATION): As legend tells, this shield can never break. Even under the force of the Gods. +1 Shield. Can be thrown as an action (20/60), and will bounce back to the user who has attuned with it. Allows for the protection fighting style to be used for allies up to 20 feet away. Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
54,"The Perpetual Chalice (Fallen Relic – DIS/CONJURATION): As legend tells, this cup can bring the holder’s wishes to life in exchange for something of their own. Twice per day, as an action the user attuned to this cup can spend 2d8 +5 health to ask the cup for anything using DM’s discretion on amount and size. The item asked for must be able to fit through the cups top. Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
55,"Sordid Sickle (Fallen Relic – MINAUROS/NECROMANCY): Legend tells of a mighty black sickle that can harvest fallen crops as if they were new, sometimes it was even told of it bringing those freshly dead back to life. The Sickle allows the attuned user to bring back freshly dead (1 hour) creatures back to life twice per day. However, if these creatures are not healed, or a DC 16 Medicine check is not made on them within the next hour after revitalization, they die again. Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
56,"Inferno’s Beginning (Fallen Relic – PHLEGETHOS/EVOCATION): Legends say this torch is what lit Hell itself ablaze. The Torch allows the attuned user to cast a spells for free using its 15 charges. DC 18. Continual Flame (1 Charge), Firebolt (3 Charges), Flaming Sphere (5 charges), Burning Hands (7 Charges), Fireball (10 Charges), Fire Shield (6 Charges), Wall of Fire (8 Charges), Delayed Blast Fireball (12 Charges). Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
57,"Seeker’s Stone Pendant (Fallen Relic – STYGIA/DIVINATION): Some legends say the wearer of this pendant can see through solid walls at will, penetrating even the mind. Allows the user to see through walls when activated. The pendant may be activated 3 times per day allowing the attuned user to see outlines of living things through walls, as well as hear conversations held. The user may also use this amulet to cast Detect Thoughts as normal, using a charge. Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
58,"The Ambiguity (Fallen Relic – MALBOLGE/ILLUSION): Tale tells of an object that has no true form… none at all. This object when held by its attuned user can be transformed into any basic weapon, small items, or shield. It can do this 5 times a day. ALL MORPHS ARE TO THE DM’S DISCRETION. Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
59,"The Crown of Madness (Fallen Relic – MALADOMINI/ENCHANTMENT): Legend tells of a crown that can make others lose their mind, possibly even control them. Allows the attuned user to cast Crown of Madness DC 20 up to 3 times per day. Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
60,"The Adapter’s Helm (Fallen Relic – CANIA/TRANSMUTATION): The Legends say this powerful helmet can transform the material of anything living or not. Allows the user to cast spells, instantly, using its 10 charges. DC 18. Barkskin (3 Charges), Stoneskin (4 Charges), Flesh to Stone (8 Charges), Gaseous Form (6 Charges), Stoneshape (2 Charges), Major Transformation (2 Charges). Destroyed by: If brought to a holy Temple of Bahamut this item could be destroyed with a number of priests and a ceremony."
61,"Esintur: Esintur is a bone white magical longsword that requires attunement. While attuned to this weapon and kill a humanoid with it, the humanoid’s soul is trapped in the weapon. Esintur can hold multiple souls at a time and has two uses for the souls. Use #1 for every 10 souls within the sword weapon attacks with the sword gain +1 to attack and damage rolls. Destroyed by: If the person who is attuned to Esintur drops to 0 hit points, a soul is expended and he/she drops to 1 hit point in stead, when a soul is expended in this way it is destroyed forever. Esintur cannot be destroyed be outside means but if it collects 52 or more souls the sword immediately explodes, dealing 10d10 radiant damage in a 30 foot radius."
62,"Crown of the Faceless King: A golden crown inlaid with rubies, requires attunement. A person who is wearing this crown and is attuned to it can sense the deepest desires of any humanoid within 20 feet. Destroyed by: The Crown can only be destroyed if the person who is attuned to it and is wearing it is beheaded to the cheers of a great crowd."
63,"Aspect of the Thought Seer: A powerful stone that was imbued with the Goddess Elutil’s power. When She fought with the evil God Naphistim, their combined power fused and the stone cracked into many pieces, birthing a new Lesser God Nephim. The villain collected these pieces and brought them together, in doing so, he is able to control Nephim to some degree and learn the answer to any question Nephim could answer. Destroyed by: It is destroyed when both positive and negative energy are attack it at the same time, falling to pieces once more."
64,"The Manual of Monsters: A magical tomb that holds absolutely every single monster (including races) and has stats for each entry. Not only does this hold the entirety of Monster knowledge, but its also in alphabetical order. Destroyed by: It could be destroyed with the venom of a purple worm used as ink in a quill of aarakocra feather. When the names of each monster are scribbled out with this writing instrument, one monster of that kind dies. When all the names are gone, the book falls to ash."
65,"Tenlock’s Armor: Tenlock’s Armor is a +3 suit of plate armor engraved with many ancient occult symbols, it requires attunement. While you are attuned to Tenlock’s Armor, gods, angels, and other divine beings cannot see, detect, or directly hurt you, and you have advantage on saving throws against divine magic. Destroyed by: Tenlock’s Armor can only be destroyed by submerging it in a specific holy spring for a year, finding the spring will be a challenge as it is almost as old as time itself."
66,Boots of Grounding: All energy based attacks do no damage to the wearer and instead are directed through the heel into the ground. Destroyed by: The boots explode if touched together while attacked by an energy attack.
67,Hangman’s Rope: A sentient rope that stays wrapped around the forearm of the user. If you’re hidden behind or above an enemy you can make an action to hang them. The rope will shoot out and wrap quickly around the neck and hoist them upwards. If you were behind them it will simply tighten. The rope can be cut but will regrow after a long rest. Destroyed by: It can only be destroyed by learning how to perform the coveted infini-knot and using it on the rope which will kill its sentience.
68,"Book of Babel: A small book that can be turned into a medium-sized portal. When you enter you go to the Library of Babel, a nearly infinite library with every book that has been written and will be written. All combinations of letters on pages can be found within the uncountable shelves. You have to come back to where you entered the library to leave. Destroyed by: The book can only be destroyed with the most powerful fire spell in the current world."
69,"The Lost Battle Standard of Vandria Gilmadrith: Elves are drawn to this banner which doubles as a war hammer with an extra long handle. The divine nature of this artifact means different spell effects can occur. Stories tell of clouds of fire obliterating armies, or a ray of light has smote ruin from across the battlefield. Destroyed by: The core of the standard is corruptible with the essence of an elven god of a chaotic alignment."
70,"Heart of the Titan: An amulet that cracks the earth, enslaves earth elementals, and creates mountains. It cannot be destroyed, only buried in a mountain range to keep the power in check. “Flesh begets Flesh. Stone begets Stone. Jagged rocks will remake the throne.” -inscription. Destroyed by: Using the heart to crack open a mountain and pitching the heart into its core allows the mountain to envelope it. This mountain would then constantly be growing ever so slightly."
71,"Dagger of the Golden Hind: A ceremonial dagger made of a now extinct creature and her horns adorn the handle. Her blood has been feared by all creation because it is fabled to be able to kill a god. Nine out of ten ampules of her blood remain on the sheath. Destroyed by: Using the True Resurrection spell on the item will destroy it, replacing it with an immortal creature of legendary tranquility."
72,"Jester’s Mask: The mask attaches itself to the wearer who is then transformed into a powerful demigod of chaos. Imbued with immense powers of deception and trickery, the wearer aims to sow destruction from the shadows wherever it can. Destroyed by: First, the wearer must be killed, and then the mask be exposed to an artifact from a lawful deity."
73,"Helm of the Valkyrie: Enraptures aasimar & celestials, reaps the souls from battlefields, and grants the wearer scaling radiant damage. Destroyed by: Can be destroyed by a fiend cursed melee weapon."
74,"Eye of Odin: Amulet that shakes the entire plane, disrupts time, and shoots lightning. Destroyed by: Return it to Odin."
75,"Cursed Helm of the Gorgon: A serpentine sentient helmet that constricts onto an unlucky soul and unleashes rows of preserved Gorgon eyes and Basilisk venom adorns the spikes and tendrils. Launches and regrows spiked darts that petrify. Destroyed by: A mirror may kill the host, but the helmet has to be pinned by a magic spear and set on fire."
76,Shapestealer: A Morningstar that allows the user to immediately become anything that the user kills with Shapestealer. Destroyed by: Shapestealer can only be destroyed if it is chewed up by a legendary behemoth that slumbers deep beneath the earth.
77,"Box of Nothing: A small, simple looking chest that, when opened, violently sucks everything around it into itself. Anything that enters the chest is erased from existence. Destroyed by: The Box of Nothing can only be destroyed if it tries to destroy another artifact of great power, than the box erases itself from existence instead."
78,"The War Room: A large room designed for the planning and coordination of military campaigns, built around a very large and well made table, with a variety of miniatures for staging maneuvers and an entire wall covered with a rack of maps that are at least one civilization collapse out of date. Up to 10 of the miniatures are equipped with concealed needles for drawing blood, and the room itself can be attuned to one individual. When the attuned individual is at the table, he can set a blood-filled miniature on it to gain an immediate bird’s eye view of the donor’s surroundings, up to 50 miles square. If the donor is underground or indoors, the view switches to a map of the structure, which is unveiled as the donor explores. The donor and the attuned individual can freely communicate. 3x a day, the attuned individual can perceive the viewed area as through the spell True Seeing. 1x a day, the attuned individual can use the table to cast Meteor Swarm, targeting the projectiles anywhere within the viewed area. Switching between miniatures takes about 5 minutes. The blood must be renewed once a year to maintain the connection. The connection between donor and room can be severed by either washing the blood out of the miniature with cold water (no harm to donor) or by dropping the miniature into a boiling pot (triggers immediate death save by donor), neither of which actually requires the attuned individual to be involved. The donor does not need to be willing or aware of the blood sampling for the room to work, nor are they automatically aware of all functions of the room. Destroyed by: Weakness: A blood donor who willingly and knowingly provided a sample may betray and kill the attuned individual. The donor may then A) instantly attune to the room or B) light the table on fire, consuming the entire room in flame in less than 10 minutes and triggering a death save for any donors still connected."
79,The Ring of Overly Charismatic Gentlemen: This ring has enough illusion magic to change the appearance of anyone wearing the ring into a well dressed noble gentleman who is charismatic as hell. Destroyed by: Whenever anyone touches the ring who is of the opposite sex of the wearer while the wearer is using the ring.
80,"The Elder’s Staff: a staff that allows the user to take a brief look into there future to see their future-self in order to give him or her advice about anything they believe is important. Destroyed by: Once the staff is used to see the few brief moments of one’s life before their death the staff burns violently to the point that with in seconds the users hand is melted onto the staff. The burning glows as bright as the sun, and will continue until the staff explodes killing the person who used it to see their death."
81,"Amulets of The New Order: A set of five pieces of one amulet that once assembled create an amulet that has the power to enchant the people around the wearer, simply by the wearer rolling a Charisma check of sixteen DC. Destroyed by: The enchantment is broken once someone knows that they are under the influence of the enchantment."
82,"The Adamantine Arm: If someone severs off their own arm and attaches this enchanted, indestructible arm on, than they become stronger than the strongest giants. Destroyed by: The arm can only be destroyed if it is attached to a mortal and that mortal is cast into a forge at the heart of a great mountain."
83,"Uwadru’s Paint Brush: Anything painted with this paint brush can be brought into reality. The paint brush can’t create anything larger than ten feet in any dimension, or anything magic, other than that your imagination is the limit. Destroyed by: It can only be destroyed if it is eaten and digested by a powerful demon."
84,"Chalice of Immorality: This fabled cup goes by many names. Any water drank from the chalice permanently restores youth. Destroyed by: The chalice can’t be destroyed by any means, but if it is filled to the brim with an alcoholic drink brewed by a fiend for 6 days, it loses all it’s magic."
85,Medallion of Anti-Magic: The wearer of this has a 300 ft sphere of anti-magic field around them. Destroyed by: It can only be destroyed by a weapon that has been allowed to rust.
86,"Apple of Discord: A golden apple engraved with the words “to the fairest” in elvish. The apple radiates powerful enchantment magic that drives the vain to desire possession of this item. Destroyed by: The only to destroy this item is to show it to the avatar death itself, who will promptly take it forever."
87,"The Pyromaniac’s Ever Glowing Ember: This seemingly innocuous small red coal holds the power to cast powerful fire spells. With each use, it must consume something larger (kindling, log, tree, house, village, etc…), but can be reset if the user is killed as the artifact then consumes him or her in flame. Destroyed by: If someone eats the ember and successfully completes a sequence of high fortitude saves."
88,"Blade of the Soulripper: This rune-decorated katana is said to envelop the soul of whoever it kills. If the blade is not sated daily, it begins to eat at the life force of the wielder. Destroyed by: If the blade is locked away for a long period of time (determined by the GM), it will turn to dust."
89,The Master’s Die: Has 1d20 charges. Each roll of the die will provide the roller with a vision of the future that is congruent with the number rolled (eg. a 1 will show the roller themselves picking up the die after it is rolled; a 10 shows the party meeting an NPC later on; a 15 will show the roller a minor villain attempting their plan; a 20 will show the BBEG preparing for the final battle). The die also summons a monster with CR equal to the aforementioned roll. Destroyed by: Rolling this many times is the only way to destroy the die.
90,Lamp of Wishing: A lamp that contains a genie. The genie will grant up to three wishes to the holder. Each wish has a 1/100 chance of instantly killing the holder and a 1/100 chance of destroying the lamp. Destroyed by: Rolling a 100 after the wish on d100 and destroying the lamp. Wishing the genie to be free of his bounds. This may result in a powerful NPC ally to the party.
91,"The Chaotic Heart: If someone manages to survive having their own heart removed and replaced with this one, they will have incredibly destructive, red lighting based powers, and have their mind corrupted by the chaotic intent of the heart. Destroyed by: The only way to destroy this artifact of chaos is to have it squished between the great gears of the extraplaner machine, Mechanus."
92,"Ravenheart: a black half-cloak (only covering down to about lower back) that is greased in wax and has a silver raven as a pin. 1/short rest, active with a bonus action: turn into a flock of ravens (still 5ft square big) for your move action (must be a single move), and then return to normal shape. While in raven flock form, you do not provoke attacks of opportunity, and all creatures moved through takes 1d12 necrotic damage. [If you want more power, just make it more usable per rest, or increase the damage/raven flock size] Ex. of powered Ravenheart: Flock of ravens: now 15ft square, deals 5d12, and grants the wearer +2 AC and +1 to all saves. Lore: the great-auntie Hag Fibblestitch sowed the cloth of the cloak from the black hair of children she kidnapped over a dozen years. She would lure them into the Crestwood, and once they were lost, send her pack of shadow hounds upon them. Once she completed the cloak, she gave it as a boon to a Rightous Paladin who wished to find the evil that was stealing kids. Many years would pass while possessing it, as he searched for the cause. When he learned the truth of his gift, he was driven mad with grief and self-loathing. The Paladin would end up jumping off a bridge to end his own life, and his corpse can be found at the bottom of a lake now. The cloak was retrieved by the hag, and continues to be given to would-be heroes. Destroyed by: the Paladin had a knife given to him by the mother of the first child lost. A simple steel dagger, it still remains as sharp as it was since the paladin lived. Only it can cut the cloak."
93,"Mask of Thespari: This mask, when worn, allows the wearer to imitate any person perfectly, using a combination of illusion, enchantment, and transmutation magics. Not even close friends or family members will be able to easily see through the disguise. Destroyed by: If the wearer of the mask says their own real name while disguised, the mask is destroyed."
94,Plow of Blight: This ordinary looking wooden plow corrupts any ground it plows. Any crops planted in this corrupted soil grow to become hoards of evil plant creatures. Destroyed by: Certain archdruids can learn an ancient ritual to destroy this accursed plow.
95,"Powerseeker: This purple orb knows where many artifacts of great power lie, and it will show where they are to those who it deems worthy. Destroyed by: The Powerseeker crumbles to dust when all the great artifacts it knows about are destroyed."
96,"The Black Ring: A glass ring with darkness inside it. Any corpse that the wearer touches rises to become a zombie under the wearer’s control and the wearer can try to bring undead not under their control under their control. Destroyed by: The ring is destroyed if it is thrown into the sun, good luck!"
97,"The Shattered Sword of Quo Yang: This once ornate and beautifully crafted sword is broken into several shatters of steel and a hilt with a jagged cracked blade still attached. If the sword can be reforged to its former glory, it is believed that the wielder can unite and rule a broken and divided kingdom to return it to power. Destroyed by: Only by offering all the pieces to an active volcano."
98,"Whistle of the Imperator: This whistle when heard requires a save to not fall into a temporary catatonic state prone to suggestion. Reflex save for a chance to block your ears, fortitude save to not fall into the standing coma, and a will save to resist against the suggestion. The blower of the whistle requires some sort of ear impairment or risks knocking themselves vulnerable to sleep and suggestion. Destroyed by: The whistle itself is actually quite ordinary aside from functionally protecting what is inside. The magic comes from a small stone of enchanted onyx inside the chamber. Removing the stone neuters the enchantment, but destroying it requires using the onyx as a component in another spell or ritual."
99,"Ascot of the Serpent: This shiny silk ascot woven with various shades of green thread holds the power of a demonic snake god. Wearing the scarf will fill the user with power, while slowly transforming them. After a period of time, the wearer is reborn as a snake servant of the demonic snake god. Destroyed by: After days of careful study, a practiced tailor of seamstress can discover the locking knot to begin unwinding the fabric. Once reduced to a single continuous string, the enchantment is broken and the string can be destroyed by any normal means."
100,"Needle of Unstoppable Destruction: This needle looks perfectly mundane, but it is perhaps the most dangerous instrument of entropy in the multiverse. Anything that touches the point of the needle cracks and unravels and crumbles to dust, and I do mean anything, including any artifact on this list. Destroyed by: There is no known way to destroy this thing, your best bet is to cast it out of reality itself. USE WITH CAUTION!"

d100,Entry

1,"Albin - sire of few, father to many"
2,"For years Yamill talked us half to death, this is the first time she's been out of breath"
3,"Here lies a MacKennell lad, who bravely fought the wolf that stalked our town"
4,J.P. 873 - 894 A tough bastard
5,Stay dead this time
6,"Kensa Ayarson - rightful heir, last of his line"
7,[This gravestone has been heavily scratched. It appears someone really wanted to obscure the inscription.]
8,Go To The Old Tree At Full Moon To Learn My Secret
9,Jentaros can finally get all the sleep he wants
10,All shall join me one day
11,"Farooi, warrior of the Thunder Legion, died in bed"
12,Tricky Ulfrit finally met someone he couldn't cheat
13,The Red Bull is with his foreign god now
14,"H. Loggerton - lived by the sword, died by the gun"
15,K. A. S. - founder and honoured teacher
16,Nicola would curse us for not burying him next to the tavern
17,"Here lies a wise sage, buried by his devoted student."
18,Master Alamexios buried by his greatest work. [Gravestone near a ruined tower]
19,Eul B. Next
20,"Stavros was right, the drink didn't kill him... the fall did"
21,"C. Corey, devoted father and husband. 'The wind in the trees/and the smile of a wife/teach the thoughtful man/all there's to know about life.'"
22,Old Bill tells his tales in the next world now
23,Grand Lord Fulburne lies where he came from [Gravestone near a farmhouse]
24,"Here lies a street prophet, nothing he predicted ever came true"
25,"Zerauth Trisquen - Author, Husband, Martyr 1746 - 1953"
26,"Brownleg, the king's favourite horse [Large and ornate gravestone]"
27,Charlotte - Beloved daughter gone astray
28,Gon Vishin' - Drown't But Not Out.
29,Here Layeth a Fool: Lied Once; Lays Forevermore
30,Yu Winsome: Lost Some.
31,"A Saint to Many, A Scoundrel to Some."
32,"​Dirty D'an, Gravedigger - Man Loved Mud; What Else is There to Say?"
33,Keep Back - Contagious Necromancy
34,"A. Trap - If You Can Read This, You Are Too Close."
35,"Jinder - Stole from the rich, gave to the needy, met his end when he got greedy."
36,Geoffrey - We thank him for his sacrifice
37,There is a fine line between bravery and foolishness. Elgin Tenson crossed it.
38,"Kelly the Arsonist, fire was her best friend"
39,"Harikin master archer, once shot a branch from across a field"
40,May death bring you the peace that eluded you in life
41,The most trustworthy comrade I had and a true lifesaver. Farewell. [The grave of a tool or instrument.]
42,Here lie the nightmares of a child. Sealed within the coffin. [Coffin contains a doll.]
43,A. Rose. The prettiest flower plucked away from his field.
44,"D. Docks. Called Doc by many, but had more intent on making wounds than fixing them."
45,"Here lies impatient Jon. Measured once, got shot twice."
46,"Here lies the Wizard Zas, a man of few words and much brilliance"
47,Here lies Smitty Werben Jagerman Jensen: he was number one.
48,"The Sleeping Sage of Contina, on to the next dream"
49,Ricky - long missed
50,"Here lies Fortune-Teller Fegip, who predicted her own date of death"
51,In memory of Diao. The world wasn't coming to an end -- only her.
52,"Corindel, fallen before the walls did."
53,In memory of Redbeard. Killed because he loved dogs.
54,"In memory of sweet, harmless al-Ruub."
55,In memory of Dwongar. Completely Forked.
56,"Here lies Stout. Faster than the wind, dumber than a stump."
57,I think his name was Andy.
58,"In the end, his last breath was stolen from him."
59,Bosworth's last words: 'Bring some damn good pipeweed to my wake!'.
60,In memory of Maryse. She enjoyed every cut to the last. And she enjoyed that one the most. It cut her spirit free.
61,In honor of 'Soupy' Sariel. He made killing things fun again.
62,He taught us to make the seconds count before we close our eyes.
63,Remember Sari'andi. One day she will rise and take her vengeance.
64,"Theodmer died hungry, or at least he thought he was."
65,In memory of Thomsap. Sticks and stones broke his bones.
66,Zilyana the Deaf. She never heard it coming.
67,"Aberlag never felt like he fit in anywhere. He fits in a coffin quite nicely, now."
68,Kelvhan died. We ate him and buried the bones here.
69,Red Trinos found that which he did not seek -- the sharp end of a blade.
70,"May your spirit swim forever, Kelvan."
71,Marlevaur rests with the knowledge that her death provides much gossip.
72,"Numbers matter no more, for Faringan has found eternity."
73,"Grevea lies here, covered in glory and dirt."
74,In memory of Ulduin. He was one crazy son of a bitch.
75,He's cooked his last meal.
76,Beloved wife and loyal drinking companion.
77,"This time, she was right."
78,"Finally, Zinwelle sleeps alone."
79,"In memory of Nekrasova. A juggler beyond compare, at least in her own mind."
80,She couldn't take it with her.
81,"In memory of Kevliss the Unrestful. His works completed, may he finally find rest."
82,"In memory of Barron, a true Oddity."
83,"He asked to be buried with his beloved dog. Oh, well."
84,Methath finally got out of the city. [local god] watch over his spirit.
85,Botvat. Noble but poor.
86,Quinzel was thrown in this hole.
87,In memory of Old Macintosh. May all her children prosper.
88,Skye didn't love me enough to write me an epitaph
89,"If even a tenth of the stories Nathy told us were true, he's alive and halfway across the continent by now."
90,"Skarfitaine the cook - her food was okay, her death was honourable"
91,"In memory of cunning Liza, who pulled off the whole plan perfectly and then died of fever that summer"
92,"Greedy Holros buried with that which he prized above all else. [This grave has been dug up, there's nothing in the hole.]"
93,"An arrow is buried here, that killed a man who was about to kill me on the battlefield. Archer, I thank you."
94,Dhitta wanted to live among the foreigners and is now buried in their way.
95,"Sasyidat Ilyota, 555 - 597. The fifth stone in this graveyard, after his lucky number."
96,The Snake' - never knew his real name but we all owe him our lives. Gods be with him
97,"In memory of the Vikra family, killed to the man in a senseless feud. Spring 1326"
98,Let this stone be a warning to all who would trouble Threepines
99,"Durgan Fairhammer, clan exile, hero to our village"
100,Here lies Azelia in the place she loved most. [Gravestone in a peaceful clearing]

d100,Entry

1,"If your character wasn’t an adventurer, what livelihood would they lead?"
2,Who in the party would your character trust the most with their life?
3,What are your character’s core moral beliefs?
4,What relationship does your character have with their parents and siblings?
5,Does your character have any biases for or against certain races?
6,What is your character’s opinion on nobility? On authority?
7,"Describe your character’s current appearance: clothes, armor, scars they’ve picked up along the journey, etc."
8,"What location encountered in the campaign has your character felt the most “at home” in, or just generally liked the most?"
9,"What deity, if any, does your character worship? What’s their opinion on other people’s worship?"
10,"If your character had time to pick up any artisan’s tools, game set, instrument, etc., what would it be?"
11,Describe your character’s current relationship with the player character sitting to your right.
12,"What is your character’s current goal, summed up in one sentence?"
13,"Does your character ever want to “settle down” with a spouse, children, house, etc.?"
14,Has your character ever been in love?
15,What battle in the campaign has been most memorable to your character?
16,"If your character wasn’t whatever class they are, what would they be instead?"
17,What is your character’s favorite season?
18,"What would your character’s Zodiac sign be, following stereotypical astrology?"
19,Where in the world does your character most want to visit?
20,What is the biggest mistake your character has ever made?
21,"Does your character have any noticeable scars? If so, what are their stories?"
22,What animal best represents your character?
23,"If your character could go back in time and change one thing about their life, what would it be?"
24,Which other player character does your character find themselves having the most in common with?
25,Does your character regret any particular choice the party has made?
26,What would your character say their best trait would be?
27,"What is your character’s greatest fear? Deep, irrational?"
28,What is currently motivating your character to stay with the party?
29,What are your character’s hobbies and interests outside of their class?
30,What would most people think when they first see your character?
31,"What stereotypical group role does your character play in the party? (The Mom, the Mess, the Comic Relief, etc. Optionally: What role would your character play in the “Five Man Band” structure?)"
32,What is your character the most insecure about?
33,What person does your character admire most?
34,What does your character admire and dislike the most about the player character sitting to your left?
35,"Why is your character’s lowest stat their lowest (the in-character reason, not “because there’s no reason for a wizard to have 16 strength, duh”)?"
36,What would be your character’s theme song/favorite band/favorite genre of music?
37,"What stereotypical role would your character play in a high school AU/if they attended a normal high school? (Nerd, jock, bully, goth, etc.)"
38,What treasure/item/artifact that your character has collected during the adventure is the most important to them?
39,"Is there any particular weapon, item, etc. that your character longs to find?"
40,Where does your character feel the most at home?
41,Does your character care about how they’re perceived by others? How do they change themselves to fit in with other people?
42,What does your character think is the true meaning of life?
43,What is your character’s scent? (Bonus points for a description that sounds like it could be from a bad [or awesome] fanfic.)
44,Does your character think more with their heart or their brain?
45,What is your character’s most recent or frequent nightmare?
46,"What opinion does your character have on [CERTAIN ESTABLISHED GROUPS/AUTHORITIES IN THE GAME WORLD]? (Dragonmarked Houses, royal crown, etc.)"
47,How did your character spend their childhood? Where did they grow up/who were their childhood friends?
48,"What aspect of your character’s future are they most curious about? (If they could know one thing about the future, what would it be?)"
49,What colors are associated with your character?
50,"Who in the party would your character prioritize rescuing, in dire circumstances?"
51,"Is your character the most swayed by ethos, pathos, or logos?"
52,"If your character was granted a single use of Wish, what would they use it for?"
53,What is your character’s favorite spell? If they don’t use spells: what is their favorite personal weapon/combat maneuver/skill/etc.?
54,How does your character feel about keeping secrets from the rest of the party?
55,What type of creature in the world is your character the most intrigued by?
56,"When they were a child, what did your character want to be, or think they were going to be, when they grew up?"
57,The player character to your left admits that they’re passionately in love with your character. How would your character respond?
58,"If somebody (an NPC, someone from their backstory, etc.) your character trusts/loves asked your character to do something against the party’s best interest, who would they side with?"
59,Does your character value their own best interest more than the party’s?
60,What decision would the party have to make in order for your character to consider splitting off from the group?
61,How does your character imagine the way they will die?
62,What is your character’s greatest achievement?
63,Is your character willing to risk the well-being of others in order to achieve their goal?
64,What is your character’s opinion on killing others?
65,What is your character’s favorite food? Beverage?
66,How generous is your character? Especially to those they don’t know?
67,"What is your character the most envious about, regarding anyone in the party?"
68,The player character to your left and the player character to your right are both telling your character two different versions of the truth. Who does your character believe?
69,What is your character’s sexuality/relationship with sex?
70,What is your character’s biggest pet peeve?
71,Describe how your character feels about the party’s current situation/objective/etc.
72,Who in the party would your character trust the most to keep an important secret?
73,"If your character knew that they were going to die in a month, how would they spend the rest of their life?"
74,What makes your character feel safe?
75,"If your character had the chance to rename the party/give the party a name, no questions asked, what would it be?"
76,What memory does your character want to forget the most?
77,"If your character had to multiclass into a class they currently aren’t the next time they level up, what would it be and what reason would they have for doing so?"
78,What television/book/video game/etc. character would your character be best friends with? (Or: what media character is your character the most influenced by/similar to?
79,What unusual talents does your character possess?
80,"How does your character feel about receiving/giving orders? Are they more of a leader, or a follower?"
81,What does your character’s name represent to them? (Or: why as a player did you choose your character’s name?)
82,"Is your character more of an introvert, or an extrovert?"
83,How far is your character willing to go to pursue the “greater good”? Do they believe in a greater good at all?
84,What does your character want to be remembered by?
85,What would be your character’s major in college?
86,"Does your character consider themselves a hero, villain, or something else?"
87,What major arcana tarot card best represents your character?
88,Where does your character see themselves in 20 years?
89,"What is your character’s relationship with magic? Are they scared of it, wish to know more about it, indifferent to it?"
90,Who is your character’s biggest rival?
91,What is your character’s guiltiest pleasure?
92,What does your character hope for the afterlife?
93,Who in the party does your character trust the least?
94,What is your character’s biggest flaw?
95,How did your character learn the languages that they speak?
96,What is your character’s favorite school of magic/type of weaponry?
97,"What is most important to your character: health, wealth, or happiness?"
98,What advice would your character give to a younger version of themselves?
99,Are there any social or political issues your character feels strongly about?
100,"What, currently, is your character the most curious about?"

d100,Entry

1,Hair
2,Eye(s)
3,Memories (all or some)
4,Clothes
5,Teeth
6,Shoes
7,Four limbs
8,Bed
9,Weapons
10,Money
11,Moral sense
12,Tongue
13,House (bed is standing now in the open)
14,Old scars and wounds
15,Color sight
16,Testicles
17,Emotions
18,Equilibrium
19,Jewels
20,All the letters in your books (pages left blank)
21,Everyone else (you are apparently alone in the world)
22,Sense of humor
23,Appetite
24,Hat
25,"Animals (pets, familiars, horses etc.)"
26,Youth (you are suddenly much older)
27,Health
28,Beauty
29,"All buttons, shoelaces and buckles"
30,Color (becoming all pale white)
31,Head
32,Sanity
33,Knowledge of languages
34,Voice
35,All fear
36,Food
37,Blankets
38,Identity (no one remembers you)
39,Children
40,"Faith (if you’re a priest or paladin, you lose your levels)"
41,Hope
42,Talents
43,Happiness
44,Skin
45,Life (you awake as an undead)
46,Body (you awake as an incorporeal spirit)
47,Weight (you float in the air)
48,Courage
49,Strength
50,Mobility (you’re paralyzed)
51,Face (it becomes blank)
52,Kidneys
53,Fingernails
54,Senses (all or some)
55,Shadow
56,Fat
57,Body liquids (you’re dehydrated)
58,Lots of blood
59,Desire
60,Curiosity
61,Will to live
62,"Age (you wake up younger, perhaps a child or a baby)"
63,Friends (nobody likes you)
64,Body heat
65,Navel
66,Furniture
67,Control (your body is controlled by something else)
68,Empathy
69,Patience
70,Doubts
71,Soul (you’re an empty husk)
72,Ears
73,Keys
74,All sharp objects
75,All paintings and drawings
76,All doors
77,Humanity (you awake as another creature)
78,"Solidity (you awake as a shapeless, fluid mass)"
79,Stability (your shape shifts constantly)
80,Sex (you awake as the other sex)
81,"Time (you awake days, months or years after you fell asleep)"
82,Nose
83,Everything with a certain color
84,Sense of reality (you feel like in a dream)
85,Visibility (you wake up invisible)
86,Need to sleep
87,Sensation
88,Size (you wake up much smaller)
89,Intelligence
90,Speed
91,Good manners (you become terribly rude)
92,Speech ability
93,Bags
94,Vulnerability
95,Most valuable possession
96,Eyelids
97,Cutlery
98,Chamber pot
99,Holy symbols and items
100,Left hand

d100,Entry

1,Tombstone
2,Wagon Wheel
3,Wooden Oar
4,Giant Drum
5,Tree Stump
6,Boulder
7,Beehive
8,Wooden Barrel
9,Dragon Scale
10,Mushrooms
11,Tree Branch Toothpick
12,Bag of Stolen Wheat
13,Javelins
14,Wooden Spear
15,Cheese Wheel
16,Bag of Colorful Pebbles
17,Acorns
18,Giant Waterskin
19,Mammoth Tusk
20,Boat Anchor
21,Bag of Pipeweed
22,Giant Club
23,Tattered Banners
24,Live Goat
25,Empty Bottle
26,Large Bag of Salt
27,Large Arrowheads
28,Bag of Leather
29,Cured Meat
30,Giant Tooth
31,Decaying Book
32,Cask of Ale
33,Incomprehensible Notes
34,Makeshift Pillow
35,Elf Bones
36,Barrel of Honey
37,Bag of Onions
38,Cauldron
39,Animal Pelt
40,Huge Fish
41,Dragon Skull
42,Berries
43,Collection of Giant Snail Shells
44,An Unhappy Lynx
45,Firewood
46,Ram Horns
47,Bag of Pine Needles
48,Iron Spikes
49,Half of a Horse/Goat
50,Huge Hammock
51,Giant Eating Utensils
52,River Stones
53,10 ft. of Chain
54,Scraps of Bread
55,Barrel of Grog
56,Fish Bones
57,Bag of Seeds
58,Large Candle
59,Live Chicken
60,Barn Door
61,Huge Frog
62,1d20 gps
63,Fishing Net
64,Throwing Rocks
65,Cabbages
66,Snot Rag
67,Bag of Stolen Vegetables
68,Cooking Pot
69,Large Iron Key
70,Mutton
71,50 ft. of Hempen Rope
72,Arm of a Statue (Back Scratcher)
73,Broken Compass
74,Barrel of Oil
75,Crude Map of Area
76,Bag of Coal
77,Jar of Fishing Bait
78,Humanoid Skulls
79,Gigantic Egg
80,Shiny Rock
81,Large Makeshift Shovel
82,Tree Roots
83,Dead Giant Rats
84,Bag of Herbs
85,Pick Axe
86,Emerald
87,Leather Scraps
88,Large Bedroll
89,Bear Skin Rug
90,Giant Torch
91,Loincloth
92,Food Scraps
93,Giant Hand Axe
94,Broken Fishing Rod
95,Large Apron
96,Rusted Armor
97,Stone Maul
98,Jar of Bugs
99,Stone Knife
100,"A live, scared Dwarf"

d100,Entry

1,"A tree stump covered in bent pennies. It looks like passers by have jammed the edges of pennies and other small coins into the cracks and bark of this large stump and bent them down to create an almost scale-effect on the bark. Over the years after the bark space ran out pennies were jammed between other pennies, and so on, growing the stump over time."
2,"The path here has been replaced with smooth stone squares alternating with squares of bare earth, grass and wildflowers in a checkerboard pattern. The whole pattern is irregular at the edges, longer but thinner than a true checkerboard."
3,"A vast collection of lamps and lanterns have been hung around the path, some along the sides in tree branches or hung from iron rods, some hanging down from above, some placed directly on the ground. No two lamps are the same, some are iron, some wood, some paper, some ornate, some elaborate, some elven, some dwarven. At night they all illuminate on their own, flicking on over the course of the sunset, in no discernible pattern."
4,"Several trees have been cut down along this trail, and their left behind stumps have been hollowed out and planted with local wildflowers and herbs. A few of them boast a single large pumpkin placed right at the stump's center with vines curled all around the roots."
5,"The path widens out into a circular clearing. At the center a raised dais fountain pours with mirror-smooth water before cascading over the edge. The water supports a single clear gazing ball, gently rotating."
6,"The trees and plants here have all been tagged or marked with small signs, in delicate calligraphy. The signs name the plants and list some common uses. The signs help anyone who is looking to improve their foraging, granting a 1D4 bonus to foraging rolls for the next week."
7,"The path intersects with a calm river where a flat disc of stone, about 10' across, is floating at the water's edge. The river is causing the stone to rotate but it is caught in place by an outcrop of rock. As the river rotates the stone disc the disc grinds out more of the rock it has caught on. It has clearly been here for years as the stone it is stuck on has a sizable divot formed from the rotation."
8,"A small mossy cottage can be seen of a branch in the trail. The cottage is made of red pine with forest green roof tiles. It's roof is a sharp steeple with a lit coppola. The cottage looks too small for anyone to really live in, perhaps enough space to keep out of any passing rain. Inside the walls of the house are completely painted with a detailed map of the area. A day's ration for two people can be found in a chest by the entrance."
9,You happen across a sheltered bench made of oak with a tall trellis supporting dense vines. There is a circle frame cut from the trellis at the back of the bench which perfectly frames a massive oak tree growing in a field to the west.
10,"From a distance it looks like this tree is radiating a bright and fiery energy along the ground. On closer inspection someone has taken the fallen leaves of the forest and arranged them around the base of a massive walnut tree so that the yellow ones are nearest to the trunk, then orange, then red, radiating out in a pattern to create the effect."
11,"Several glass windows in wooden frames have been scattered around this path, leaned against trees and laying on the ground."
12,"The path here dips down between an outcrop of stone that is densely covered in mosses and ferns. As the trail moves down, the stones raise up, towering far overhead yet still close enough to touch. At the nadir of the path a wooden bridge zigzags through two massive mossy stones. The railings of the bridge have wooden logs arranged in a fan pattern. Water drips down from the moss onto the passers of the bridge. The bridge crosses a skinny creek before the path slopes upwards again."
13,"The path happens upon a low wall made of loose stones. The wall is easy enough to hop over, but the path follows along only one side of the wall. After a few minutes of walking, a stone arched Moon Gate has been made, which the path follows through and continues onward."
14,"You come upon an oblong stone propped up vertically in the grasses. At its base, other oblong stones have been placed on the ground in a radiating sun pattern, all pointing toward the vertical stone. As the path progresses two more of these sculptures can be seen, though one of them was a great distance away from the path."
15,"Someone has built a lattice roof to cover this section of path. From it wisteria grows, hanging down fragrant purple flowers overhead. Squat square lanterns have been hung in between the flowers, but they are unlit."
16,"The base of a massive sequoia tree has been decorated with illusory butterflies, with iridescent purple wings. The butterflies are fluttering while clumped all over the bark of the tree so that the bark cannot even be seen. They only cover it in patches, with small trails of fluttering butterflies reaching up the tree trunk."
17,"The path has been lined with hanging wrought iron birdcages. The cage doors are all open and plants are growing inside, of all different types."
18,"Perfectly clear glass mushrooms have been placed throughout the forest around the trail, almost imperceptible but for their odd distortions of the soil."
19,"Several lanterns have been hung along the trail here. All of them are made of downward drooping blue leaves or flower petals, with the gently hovering lights trapped within the bundle of leaves. The leaves are wrapped with black iron which is then formed into a hook so the lanterns can be easily hung from above."
20,"Several logs have been placed along the trail as well as throughout the forest. The logs are cracked and the cracks have been refilled with clear resin. At night the resin glows brightly, lighting the way."
21,"In the dense forest someone has made a simple wooden frame of a house, with no walls or roof. At the center of the house they have hung a lit chandelier, and placed a lovely mahogany table with seating for eight, and a full place setting. The table, plates and chandler have become worn over time, cracked and dirty."
22,"Along this trail someone has gathered up sticks and twigs from the ground. Then, they wove the sticks together to make eight egg-shaped arches placed right over the path. The arches are about 7 feet tall, and can easily be passed through."
23,"The path rounds a hill and overlook a huge field, in the field a stepped tower ruin made of stone juts up. The tower is weathered and crumbling, and nothing can be found inside, but the sight is impressive."
24,The path leads up through a grassy steppe and up through a steep hillside. The path gives way to stone stairs. Someone has come through and taken surplus stone slabs of the same material as the staircase and placed them vertically or at odd angles to decorate the trail.
25,A small marble rotunda has been built at the edge of a river. It seats three comfortably but offers no shelter as the roof is made of latticed iron. At the center of the rotunda is a small statue of a cat holding a fish in its mouth proudly.
26,"The path crosses another, but does not directly connect as it goes under a large bridge. On the underside of the bridge someone has taken differently colored river stones and attached them to the ceiling to look like a clear night sky. Several well known constellations can be seen in their work."
27,"The path is unpaved, and generally unkempt, but you happen upon a short wide staircase, regal enough for any king. The staircase is 10 steps tall and wide enough for 5. It boasts a wide stone banister carved of marble. Carvings of plants and forest creatures decorate the sides. Someone has come through and pried all the gems from their eyes and the gold plating from the staircase in general, but the impressive stonework remains. The staircase connects to a higher portion of the path, which continues on as normal."
28,"The path begins to steepen, with roughly formed stairs leading the way. The trail takes a sharp hairpin bend to proceed. At the inner bend of their hairpin is a carefully carved statue of a woman, holding a fox in her arms. Several candles have been lit and placed all over the statue."
29,A roughly hewn ladder leads up into a whirl of sticks sitting atop a thicket. It looks almost like a massive birds nest. The inside can not be seen until you climb the ladder. Inside is a sheltered padded bed that will fit two comfortably.
30,The path passes directly through a huge tree. A set of stairs have been formed from the tree roots leading up to an open archway of bark that bisects the tree. Inside the archway many passers by have left behind graffiti.
31,"Three skinny trees have been carefully grown along the side of the path. They split from a common root and widen out to support a stone table top about 5' across. Then they grow back inward, making a triple arch over the table, before recombining at the apex and finally leafing out in a natural tree formation. The table is clear."
32,"The fencing along the side of this trail is made up of live trees, grown in such a way that they weave their trunks together. At the top of these fences the trees sprout with bright green leaves. Beyond the fence, open prairie."
33,"The path becomes grassy and well maintained, and the trees become neatly trimmed. After a mile or so of this pristine artful forest the trees give way to an open clearing with a single wooden gazebo at the center, covered in flowers in full bloom. Benches all around the gazebo have been placed to support a large audience."
34,"The path leads along a rocky creek, flowing with crisp water. After half a mile the source of the creek is found, flowing from the palm of a massive hand carved of stone. The Hand gently tips the water on top of a single juvenile tree. The stones all around the hand and water are thick with mosses."
35,"A tree along the side of the path has been grown into an unnatural pattern. The trunk has split into several branches, the outermost forming a diamond shape, and the inner ones forming 'holes' around on another in a sort of weaving pattern. The branches all recombine to form the trunk after the diamond pattern and the rest of the tree appears to be normal."
36,"The path curves around the base of a massive white wisteria tree, with dark black winding branches and brilliant streams of white flowers. Petals are gently raining all along the trail."
37,"The path gives way to a long line of wooden discs carved from tree trunks, lined end to end for at least a mile of trail."
38,"Someone has hung a pentagram made of sticks from a tree overhanging the path, and tied each point in the star with a different bundle of drying herbs."
39,"The trail curves past a waterfall before cutting up through a stone cliff. Right before the staircase begins the stone landing has been carved into a beautiful viewing point for the falls, with dwarven cut banisters."
40,"The next section of path is clearly marked, and yet anyone approaching it has the strong urge to avoid the path, feeling a mix of wonder at the forest and annoyance at the path. There is no spell forcing anyone off the trail, merely a suggestion. A plaque laid out off the trail on either side reads 'The road less traveled' Kevyn Picot. Multimedia; Forest, enchantment."
41,"The path approaches a pond. The pond is perfectly square around the outside, and the path moves over the pond, on a series of rough laid stones covered in mosses, in a curved pattern. Branching off the path at regular intervals are tight spirals of stone. The pond is smooth and several Koi fish can be seen swimming in the clear water."
42,"As you approach this section of trail a shimmering humanoid can be seen standing by a tree, smiling politely. When you are close enough the human figure - a young man wearing a well tailored three piece suit - offers a tour. If you take the tour, he will tell about a historical battle fought in this very forest hundreds of years ago when the land was contested between elves and a clan of centaur. If you decline, the humanoid wishes you well and goes back to smiling politely."
43,"It has rained recently, the ground is wet and muddy. As you continue on you come upon a deck of cards that has been scattered through the forest, some cards in the trail, some in trees, some half buried, but all of them are clean and pristine. If the party manages to gather all the cards, they immediately re-scatter from the holder's hand, all over the forest once again."
44,"A single tree in the forest, a few yards off from the trail, shimmers with refracted light. On closer inspection the whole tree appears to have been carved from a massive deep blue tourmaline."
45,"Someone has put down mile markers along the trail, big slabs of local stone with carefully carved dwarven numbers. They are not evenly spaced though, and don't seem to accurately reflect distance at all."
46,A fox is resting on top of a sunny rock. The trail splits in two to go around the rock and then recombines on the other side.
47,"The trail has begun to run alongside a low, calm creek with flat stones at the bottom. The water is only about calf-high. Walking in the water is soothing and invigorating. However every so often the creek bed is marred with deep (20+ yard) stone holes, perfectly circular."
48,"The forest which was wild at the start of your journey, has been cleared of all trees except for birch [willow, maple, whatever], and there are no leaves on the ground . You don't see any stumps. Nature check (10 or better) and you see that many patches of the earth have been filled in with fresh soil. Careful observation reveals that this patch of the forest trail deviates slightly from your map, but recombines with the expected trail when the birch forest ends."
49,"Someone has hung lanterns through this stretch of the forest trail. At night they light up with colorful elemental light. Every so often, you think you can see a lantern far off in the forest, away from the trail. Probably a trick of your eyes."
50,"At the top of a massive sequoia tree you can clearly see a single window, lit from the inside. After looking for a while, the light goes out and the window disappears."
51,"Someone has placed massive glowing spheres in the trees nearby, which have begun to grow over the spheres with time. The spheres glow a yellow orange and range from one foot to 4 feet in diameter. Some are high up in drooping branches, some tucked into the roots of trees."
52,"In the forest something vaguely humanoid catches your eye, just for a moment. It is deep in the brush but, moving your head slightly, you can just barely make the outline of a person. If the party inspects further they will find a human sized sculpture made entirely of a mirrored surface, to reflect the forest around them."
53,"Broken pottery scatters the ground. Pieces of broken flower pots lay all around the roots of the trees here, giving the sense that these trees burst out of their former containers rather quickly."
54,"Someone has knit a long winding strip of colorful yarn to cover the path for the next 10 yards. The yarn seems stain resistant and resilient, as the colors have held true for who knows how long. Walking on it is very soft and pleasant."
55,"Someone has come through this section of forest and dug the soil away from the trail to form a sort of top-down view of a home. The 'pit' is about 6 feet down, and contains furnishings and walls formed from the soil, avoiding tree roots where it can. The house meanders along the path and is not traditionally square or regular. The path is untouched, but bisects this 'house' of sorts."
56,"Though the area here is wild, someone has planted a row of rosebushes along this section of trail, the roses are in full, brilliant bloom."
57,A statue of an angel with a large stone sword stands to the right of the trail. Several small pouches have been laid at its feet.
58,"You can hear faint voices up ahead. As you approach, you seem to have stumbled into a painting class. Students at a wide range of ages are scattered throughout the field with easels, painting the landscape. A teacher, and old woman, walks between them offering critique and guiding her students."
59,"The trees overhead have had translucent fabric hung from their branches, just barely reaching the trail. It is easy to push the fabric aside to continue. As the trail progresses the fabric changes from white to pink and on through a rainbow of colors."
60,"The trees along this stretch of pathway have had a myriad of wedding dresses fitted to their trunks. Some of the dresses are older, rotting away with mosses and torn by the growing trunk. Some are recent and pristine."
61,"A hundred or so Wands have been stuck point first into the soil at the edge of the trail, making a small field of sticks. Each wand appears to be different in style, and some appear to be affecting the surrounding plant life with their presence."
62,"The trail slopes downward into a field of mostly boulders. All throughout someone has lit incense atop the rocks, creating a strongly perfumed smoky fog along the trail."
63,"A large red clay pot has been placed on its side at the top of a nearby creek falls. The back of the pot has been removed to let water flow in, changing the waterfall's course to flow out of the mouth of the pot, giving the effect of constant pouring."
64,"Woven spheres of sticks have been placed over sprouting plants along the trail. It appears the intent was to encourage planted vines and bushes to grow into the sphere pattern, but the plants have only just recently begun to grow."
65,"A huge tree grows at the bend in the trail, apparently healthy. However a full 2 feet of trunk has been removed, leaving the top of the tree hovering, fully unsupported. In place of the missing trunk, a crystal pendulum is attached to the top part of the tree, hanging down in the center of the would-be trunk. A detailed glyph has been burned into the bottom stump depicting an 8 pointed star with axis for 'Yes', 'No', 'Trusted' and 'Deceiver'. As people walk by the pendulum moves to point to different areas of the glyph."
66,A tree ahead is blooming out of season. Upon closer inspection at the base of each blossom a silver ring fits snugly. Removing the ring causes the blossom to wither and die.
67,"Ahead the mountain trail gives way down a steep cliff with a descending staircase. Along the way, several man-made turquoise pools of water cascade down into one another from a local spring. The pools each feed into one another and have a submerged bench to seat between 5 and 10. No other people can be seen."
68,"You began noticing a few spider webs catching morning dew as you continue. The webbing becomes more and more common and as it does, the strands shimmer with iridescent color. After a while thick and heavy opal strands drape over the trail like blankets. Eventually the webbing fades like it appeared, and the trail is clear again. For the rest of the day, your party is unperturbed by insects."
69,"The trail passes by a clearing with a circle of wagons at the center. The wagons appear to be overgrown and rotting. On closer inspection there are a group of statues of merchants in poses of laughter, trade, or rest. All of them appear happy. Many of the wagons contain small offerings, perhaps left by passing merchants?"
70,"Ahead you can clearly see snow falling, regardless of season. The trail passes through the center of a miniature town sculpted from toothpicks. The town is massively detailed, with the tallest 4 story buildings only raising to chest height. Tiny lights have been enchanted in the lamp posts and houses. Snow gently falls here, landing in the soil, but never accumulates more than an inch."
71,"The forest ahead is filled with birdhouses of various shapes and styles. Birdseed has been scattered, and birdfeeders hang off from the trail. The whole forest is alive with bird calls."
72,"You happen across a long bridge spanning a chasm. Glancing to the northeast you see another bridge, made of a fallen tree and much more wild than this one. A procession of elk, deer, wolves and smaller creatures are crossing the bridge calmly together. When they reach the other side you can no longer see them."
73,"You hear the sound of distant creaking. Perception check to spot, deep in the forest, a structure. Far off the trail is an overgrown sailing ship, sails unfurled and billowing. There is a large hole in the hull. Trees and mosses have overtaken the ship."
74,"The trail opens to a cliff's edge, overlooking the village ahead, rolling patches of farmland quilt the land below. A tall church tower rises up from between the wooden homes. A gust of wind pulls across the land, making a ridge of bowed plants and curling the smoke from the chimneys."
75,"A pair of gigantic antlers are arched over the trail, over the party's heads with room to spare. Glistening strings with blown glass stars have been hung from various points on the antlers."
76,"The trail peters out over an open field, several groups of locals are scattered in the grasses on blankets, eating and laughing. The groups appear to be friends and families, with many children running and playing. Tonight the Northern Lights are expected to make a great showing, according to the local wizard, and people are already arriving to get good seats."
77,"The trail passes by half a stone face carved from a boulder, Just this half of the face is taller than any party member. A mile down the trail, the other half of the face. Farther still, a hand holding a sword hilt and the broken fragments of sword. Then another hand holding onto a lantern the size of a small house, lit by some magical force. The plant life around this lantern has withered to dust. At the center of the next village is a massive stone platform."
78,"Paint marks on the trees of this forest come together from one specific viewing angle to form the portrait of an elf, from all other angles the paint simply looks like a chaotic mess."
79,"The trail passes by a circular mirror which is being held from behind by a statue. The Statue depicts a man in a cloak with an impossibly long neck and the face of a barn owl, peering over the top of the mirror and gazing at itself."
80,"Along the trail are spheres of iron, hollow on the inside about 2 feet in diameter. The iron shell has been cut out to show a forest scene made in metal, each sphere has a different scene. Someone has set a campfire inside each. The fire on the inside of the sculpture backlights the iron cutouts, and lights the trail."
81,"Someone has placed dress forms along the trail. Over time the forest has re-claimed the dress forms. Mosses drape over some, vines crawl up others, flowers have bloomed around the base of one, making a very impressive neckline. Each mannequin seems to have grown a beautiful dress or suit."
82,"Several tree trunks have been stripped of all branches and bark. Faces and animal forms have been carved into the remaining wood, still rooted to the ground."
83,"In the lush green forest a massive circle of obsidian, about 20 feet across, has been placed just off the trail. It is elevated off the ground about 2 feet, held up by wrought iron legs. A recent rainfall has filled the slightly concave surface with perfectly smooth reflective water. After looking for a moment, a drop of water falls from a tree, disturbing the smooth surface."
84,"Rather than building a bridge over the top of this stream, someone has tunneled underneath. Inside the tunnel is lit by a cluster of luminescent moths."
85,"The forest seems to be recovering from a fire, perhaps one or two years prior. In the wake of the fire someone has come through with colorful translucent resin, pouring it in the cracks of half burned trees and logs and reshaping the portions that has been burned. With the returning overgrowth the forest appears bright and surreal."
86,"Several animal skulls are piled to the right of the trail. Each one has been delicately carved with an intricate pattern, without losing the structural integrity of the skulls."
87,"At a bend in the trail, just off to the right, someone has placed a perfectly smooth cylinder of white marble, 7 feet tall. Walking around to the back of the cylinder reveals a highly detailed face has been carved into a deep crack in the marble."
88,"On either side of the trail Two massive stone wings have been placed, reaching toward the sky."
89,"A massive illusionary koi fish swims through the forest trees along the trail. Every so often dipping down to pass right through the party. Each time it does, the air smells of fresh mint."
90,"Someone has taken the heads of old broken shovels and attached them at the base to make a huge metal pine cone. Then they placed it on this trail, for some reason."
91,"At first you think perhaps someone has spilled a bag of coins, but you realize that the scattered coins get more and more dense, almost like a mosaic. For about 10 yards the trail is perfectly paved with coins before the trail peters out again. The coins here appear to be from all different regions, in small denominations. Should you leave some coins to further the trail too?"
92,"The trail here has been draped with mosquito netting. In addition to freeing you from the pestering of insects, you also have a chance to see several beautiful moths and butterflies up close from the other side of the net, they don't seem to notice you while you are in the netting."
93,A stray dog wanders up to you on the trail and decides to walk with you. He has a red bandanna tied around his neck. After about a mile or so he wanders off again.
94,"Passing by a wide stream you spy a stray cat walking into the water. To your shock the water arcs around the cat, keeping it perfectly dry. With a deft swipe the cat snatches a fish from the water wall in front of it, and leaves the stream, still dry, now fed."
95,The trail has become a stone hopscotch board.
96,You come upon a small decorated sign that reads 'the masquerade trail - Speak aloud your costume' The sign can not be passed without speaking a request. For the next 6 miles of trail an illusion of the requested costume surrounds you. Along the trail several other costumed travelers pass.
97,A sculpture of a giant metal key leans against an old tree. It is labeled 'Important'.
98,"The trail bisects a white wall, 6 feet high. The wall moves from north to south in a straight line, with no end in sight. Passing through the wall the interior side shows two different scenes, in motion. On the wall running north; a snowy village with several children having a snowball fight. On the wall running south; A bustling city in the midst of a festival. The wall is made of calcite, a Rock that refracts light and images."
99,"The path opens up into a field where several gigantic metal rings support celestial sculptures. The Sun and Moon are represented by colorful and bright spheres carved into the faces of two women. Other planets and important stars have their own rings. It appears that the rings move in time with the celestial bodies, accurately depicting their position from the perspective of someone at the center of the sculpture."
100,"The forest has changed to become meticulously kept, more like a garden than the wilderness. At the base of each forest tree for the next mile is a small table with a bonsai tree, a perfect miniature of the tree it has been placed under. After a mile you come across an elderly man who is tending to a bonsai, not yet quite perfectly matching it respective tree. The Man invites you for a meal and a blessing from the forest."

d100,Entry

1,"You served as a squire to the younger son of a local lord, a minor political figure. Two years ago he moved to the city, to study magic and indulge in debauchery, and released you from your service (and your salary). You've heard that Bordertown has uses for someone with skill of arms, and so you've hopped onto the first coach available."
2,"You've always wanted to be an adventurer. You sat on your pappy's lap as he told and retold the tales of your uncle Algar Spiderspear, and your great uncle Kenway Fireheart, and your great great aunt Thea Earthforger. You didn't understand that those were meant to be cautionary tales, and that there's a reason you don't have any cousins."
3,You never really liked the family dye business. As the first born you were always expected to take over. After lamenting one night drunkenly at the tavern you met a gnome who promised to help. On returning home your family did not recognize you and your younger sibling was set to inherit. They drove you off their land to homelessness. You never saw the gnome again.
4,"You were a normal farmer, nothing special about you. Over the years, your farm started losing money and you had to let more and more of your staff go until it was just you left. One day when you are at the local inn drinking your problems away and adventurer walks through and buy the entire inn several rounds of drinks from his large sack of golden coins. Since that day you have sold your farm and used the money to buy some basic adventuring supplies and head out to build your fortune."
5,"You were a squire for the local knight and Lord of your province. One day while cleaning his library you come across and gold handle behind some dusty books. As you turned the handle it felt as if your brain was opening like a door. When you turned the handle back a a dusty grimore fell into your hands and you heard a voice inside your head, you decided to name the voice Greg."
6,"You grew up as a milk maid, over the course of your child hood you realised that you had a special connection with all animals and nature. One day on your way back from town bandits jumped out from the side of the road and attacked you. Startled, you this your hands out towards them and magic shot out from your finger tips. The next day you packed your things and headed out to learn more about what you had just done and how to control it."
7,"Your father was a miner, your mother and innkeeper, you spent your childhood poking the ashes in the fireplace waiting for something to happen. One day a halfling fell down your chimney and talk you into hiding him in your room, his only name that he gave you was Miro, but he taught you many thing over a few nights, once he felt 'it' had blown over he packed his things and invited you to join him. He trained you to be a master thief and became almost a second father to you over the course of 2 years. Until one day he set you up, and ran away with the treasure leaving you to rot in the king's jail."
8,"You always had anger problems, then again most sailors do, yours were a bit different though. One day you were fishing off the side of your ship when you caught something very heavy on your line. When you finally reeled it in you found a gold ring, but the gold was almost blood red, and in you hand it felt like it had almost no weight. Your crew members wanted to see the ring, but they only saw it as normal gold, you saw it for something much more incredible. When they tried to take it from you you flew into a rage beating them senseless until you jumped into a rowboat and made your way back to shore. You know that they will probably come after you, but none of that matters, you know that you must go to the mountains. You just don't know where or what a mountain is."
9,"You grew up on a small farm. Your family was poor, but you managed. You idolized your older brother as a child, even though he wasn’t always nice to you in return. Then one day your brother was conscripted into the army, and you haven’t heard from him since - none of the money he promised to send home, not even a letter. You have finally come of age yourself and set out to find him, or at least find out what happened to him."
10,"When you were a teenager, you stopped by a fortune teller’s stall at a festival, just out of idle curiosity. The fortune teller performed her rites and examined you, and promptly burst out laughing. She refunded your money and refused to tell you what she had seen. All she told you was, “Good luck!”"
11,"You were a middle-aged craftsman/woman with a successful business, several children, and a happy life. One day you came home to discover your spouse was cheating on you. Newly divorced, you had a bit of a mid-life crisis and spent all of your savings on a [book of magic/set of shiny armor/fencing lessons/musical instrument/etc]. Gosh darn it, you want to have an adventure!"
12,"Your parents are scholars, historians specifically, and you've been raised on countless trips to archaeological digs, libraries, and lectures with them. You may or may not have taken to the studies as much as they'd like, but when the restless need to spread your wings and get away from home took hold, they were excited to request that you document all the things you discover on your adventures and bring them home to share."
13,"You were the oldest child of a prosperous peasant. You had a life of beer, bread and barn dances to look forward to. Then, you went into the big town on a religious pilgrimage, and were knocked out and press-ganged into the army. Turns out, you loved it and never looked back. Your dad had other kids. Too bad the Goblin Wars are over now and your lord disbanded his army."
14,"You were a slave, on a big estate. One day, a charismatic leader got the slaves to rise in rebellion. You're pretty sure there are others who didn't end up crucified, but you've never met any of them. Here in the city, nobody has any idea the rebellion even happened."
15,"You were a village priest. Births, deaths, rites of passage. Holy cow, was it boring. You renounced your vows and moved on. You've never suffered from this: the gods have never wrought revenge upon you. You get the feeling they don't care, or they're not there. Some of the things you learned (healing, counseling) have proved pretty useful."
16,"You were a wealthy playboy, the son of a rich merchant. He got murdered; you lost what was left gambling. Turns out you're pretty good in a fight. You still have expensive tastes."
17,"You were trained as a courtesan. You got blamed for breaking up a marriage among nobles. Some of them still like you; others want you dead. Sometimes, it's hard to tell."
18,"You were conscripted to join the army, but it was a sham. You and a couple others were lured into an ambush by bandits. Though outnumbered, your group managed to fend them off. Unfortunately, only you survived the ordeal and managed to escape before the bandits got any more reinforcements, though not without taking a valuable item the bandits were after. Now you're on the run hoping to lure the bandits away from home."
19,"You are transported to another plane of existence where everything and everyone from your past life has occurred just the same, except you. In this plane you died early in life/never been born/had rose as a crime lord that went missing as his reign fell/whatever else you can up with."
20,Your family has been guarding an ancient artifact for generations that has been said to hold immense power. It is stolen under your watch but you track it down JUST as it is about to be used for evil. It's a dud. Now you journey around to find the real artifact that your family should've been guarding/ find the reason why they've been given such a fool's errand to follow for so long.
21,A warlock finds out they're not the only user of their patron's magic. Others share the same pact they made with it and now the patron desires them all to find each other and fight to the death. The winner shall be granted the true power the patron split between them/wish/ immortality/ whatever else.
22,"Your mother carried your little body through the woods, with her dying breath she brought you to the wise man of the forest and collapsed as soon as she told him your name. He raised you in her stead until he died of ..."
23,"Despite being cheerful and righteous, you can't remember anything before you're 25th birthday. Every time you kill something evil, you get a small memory back. Every quest returns to you a piece of your former self...and the more you see, the more you suspect you were not a good person."
24,On a mission to buy some new clothes you were mistaken for an adventurer who had already orders some. You were thus outfitted and always one to role with with what life throws at you decided to run with it. Somewhere there is an underdressed adventurer looking for her clothes and wondering who stole her identity.
25,Your parents always said that reading would be the death of you. Despite this you taught yourself how to read behind their back. You then discovered the will and testament of your real parents and realize you are being raised by your uncle who controls all the family wealth. Fearful for your life and feeling betrayed you abandon the household to make your own name and find out what really happened to your parents. Your uncle may or may not know that you know about the deception.
26,"Once, you belonged into a wealthy and noble family, who unofficially ruled the city, due to your wealth and power. You were enjoying your time in the sun and were proud of your family name, until you discovered your father is a vampire, who works with evil necromancers and together turn civilians into monsters. Conflicted on your hatred, feelings of betrayal, sense of duty and love for your house, you grabbed your dearest friends and hit the road, forsaking your family name and keeping the secrets of your family hidden."
27,"You were raised by travelling merchants, going with them wherever they went. As you got older, they started teaching you the ways of the trade, and you planned to travel and trade with them your whole life. One day, your caravan was attacked by bandits, who killed everyone, and would have killed you, if you didn't get away. Since then, you abandoned your dream, and have been making a living out of adventures."
28,"You were trained by a master of your skill, like many others, in an appropriate organisation. One day, they set each of the students on a quest for retrieving a mythical item. The thing your character was supposed to find though, was simply a myth. When you told the master the story, they didn't believe you, and expelled you from the order."
29,"Your parents were retired adventurers, who told you their epic tales, and probably expected you to follow their steps. When you reached adulthood, you set out to do even more epic deeds than them, despite having no training at all."
30,"The first thing your remember is being rescued from rubble by a good-hearted noble, who then patched you up and offered his help in trying to find who you are. The only clue you have are your class abilities (which are like muscle memory to you), and the knowledge of whatever the collapsed building was."
31,"You grew up as a normal city kid, and never really did anything interesting with your life. You had a decent job and was going to get married soon, until the day you got lost in the wilderness. That was years ago, and you have never been able to find your way back to your hometown, because nobody seems to know about it."
32,"You grew up with nothing, cheating and stealing where you could. All you’ve ever earned was a target on your back and bad reputation. Eventually you found yourself on the run from the wrong kind of people. In a tavern you met a wizard that promised a way out. With nowhere else to turn, you reluctantly agreed. The wizard took you to his study and performed a ritual to switch your face with the face of another person of similar build. Now you go off into the world with a new identity and a chance to start over. Or so you thought... (The face you wear has it's history too)."
33,"You are the child of a single woman taken in by a traveling caravan of performers while pregnant. She never described your father to you, and she changes the subject when you ask. Those in the caravan are your substitute family. You have several 'grandparents,' 'aunts,' 'uncles,' and 'cousins.' You took part in the caravan's entertainment for coin, whether as a performer or someone behind the scenes. When you felt the need, you left the caravan of your own free will to pursue your journey. You were given a special crest with the performers' symbol so you would be welcomed back if you returned."
34,"You are an experiment, either made or modified for a reason you cant even remember. with so many genetic changes and magical 'enhancements' that you cant even count the amount of places where they're from. A lab rat from a man who seemed to want to do good, and claims to try to have done so but never told what he was doing specifically, never said what his end goal was and just kept going, and going and going. The doctor was put to death for his experiments. Whatever purpose you had been made for is now lost to you, as is just about everything you used to know. You don't know who you were, assuming you were anything other than this."
35,"You fell into life threatening trouble one day exploring some ruins close to town. There you found a strange altar with and old woman sitting behind it. She said she could help you escape, if you promise to serve her. You're pretty sure she's a god, but she won't tell you her name, or what she's the god of. She shows up sometimes and points, and whatever she points at you must somehow acquire and leave behind in certain ruins. Her tastes are getting kind of extravagant."
36,"You were once the son of a wealthy merchant who traveled more than average compared to other merchants at the time. Your father would often take you and your younger sister on some of his shorter journeys, exposing you to a dangers of sailing across the seas. On one advantage your father's ship was attacked by pirates killing everyone on board. Because of the tragic death of your father you desire revenge, and will do anything to kill them."
37,"Your an anti-social person who lives a quiet life in a rural part of the kingdom. In your quiet life you discovered a interest in ancient artifacts left over from the last civilization. Known most of your down time is sent studying these artifacts through reading ancient texts, and practicing your magic."
38,"You sold vegetables from a street cart you were still making payments on. A wild street chase broke out and one of the escapees upended your cart to delay some guards, shattering it badly. Reeling from the financial loss of your vegetables and blocked from setting up another shop by overzealous debt-collector harassment, you left town with all you had hoping to put your life back together."
39,"You were once a wicked individual who took pleasure in the misery of others. You were then struck by powerful cursed magic that turned your entire outlook on life around, so that you now are a force for good who brings happiness to others. Your dark past still haunts you, and sometimes your old friends try to call you back."
40,"You were a simple bed-and-breakfast inn owner. One of your guests left for a night of carousing and never returned. Among their left-behind possessions was an ornate locked box with no key. Hoping to find the owner or their organization, you took the box to a local bush-wizard to get it identified. While you were away, your inn was ransacked and burned to the ground. Word got around you had the box and you were being hunted, so you fled in terror."
41,"When you were young, you found a diary that would message back to you if you wrote in it. It taught you many mysterious skills and spells. One day, the diary told you that it couldn't write to you anymore, and it went silent. You set off when you got older to explore some of the places the diary mentioned and uncover the identity of your mysterious penpal."
42,"When you were young, you were polymorphed into a flying horse by a malfunctioning spell. Some explorers promised to help you, and you taken on many harrowing adventures. The help never came, as the explorers preferred a flying horse. Decades pass, you were lost and sold many times. Eventually a kindly witch made you whole again, picking up human life at the age you were changed. (Can substitute for flying carpet if you aren't a horse person.)"
43,"A lonely child found a ring of wishing. They wished for their imaginary friend, you, to become real. The child soon became sick and died, and their parents blamed you and ran you out of town. Using the powers that the child imagined you to have, you have begun to search for a purpose."
44,"You were born dumb to a wealthy family with an estate. Ashamed and not knowing what else to do with you, your family used you as a slave, setting you to all the most awful and menial tasks. Not knowing any better, you became strong with a smile. One evening, you showed kindness to an old woman who turned out to be a fairy queen in disguise. She blessed you with intelligence. Disgusted with the way you were treated, you left home, hoping to learn to read, study, and start life anew."
45,"After your town was razed and everyone you knew died, you woke up in the middle of the ashes. Something, for some reason, kept you alive, and a life of adventure might give you the opportunity to find out what and why."
46,"The bandits thought they left nothing of value in your village, and maybe they were right because that night you lost your arm and way of life."
47,"You grew up as the region's stereotype, a poor farmer with a passion for whittling. After inheriting the farm prospectors found gold in the river and you sold the farm for more money than you thought was in circulation. Unsure of how to spend money and unwilling to save it, you purchased an abandoned adventurer's guild with plans to turn it into a wooden toy shop before finding it not quite as abandoned as you thought."
48,"You are a farmer who found a talking rock which only you could hear, in the middle of your own farm. Everyone thinks you lost your mind, which eventually leads to an unwanted embargo, and you go bankrupt."
49,You lead a relatively normal life as a tailor in a small town until your infant daughter started showing signs of sorcerous abilities and was stolen in the night.
50,"You were the student of the greatest bard in the land, until you murdered him."
51,You were trapped in a cloud giant's castle for years living of of giant crumbs. Only recently were you able to escape.
52,"You were an orphan taken in by the local butcher. You were a loner bug dilligent and you loved your adoptive father. One day the village is attacked by bandits, who kill your adoptive father. You get your revenge on the bandits but the brutality of your vengeance alienates you even more to the rest of the village."
53,"You grew up watching the pit fighters in the capital city, marveling at their strength and ability. You spent years training on your own in both armed and hand fighting, with the ultimate goal of entering the pit and becoming a legend in your own right. As you are about to enter for your first match, your opponent and the announcer come over to lay out the match, revealing all of the fights are pre-determined and set up so no one is really injured. You walked away and now are trying to find your place in the world."
54,"For your entire life up to now you have watched others perform magic, they were few, but fantastical and filled your heart with wonder. Practice and study as you may, you were never able to recreate even simple cantrips that the local wizard has tried to teach you. Distraught, you ran to the woods to a secret clearing to cry for a bit. That day something incredible happens, magic shot from you fingertips, and shortly after a man in a suit and tie walk up from the edge of the clearing and sets his briefcase down on a large flat rock that you had never seen sitting there before. “It seems we have some paperwork to go over,” he said with a smile."
55,"You met and joined a errant knight and his small court that traveled searching for riches and a new home for this lord and his barren town after the war. After years of service and being brought to be loyal to this cause, the knight died in his sleep all the sudden and his attendants looted the caravan and ran off, leaving you to bury your teacher, pack what gear he had and was left behind and pick up the quest of Knighthood to this unknown lord as he was show."
56,Character [C] was a demon hunter on the desert planet Derach. C fought alongside their small battalion and this group was revered for their efficiency and kept to themselves. One day a strange rift opened and pulled the group apart banishing each of the soldiers to different corners of the universe. C’s only goal once reaching a strange green planet was to find a way to portal back to the demon’s world and find their companions. Unfortunately C was captured by the planets inhabitants and forced into slavery.
57,"You only remember the last 5-10 years of your live. Before that it is all blank. Your parents/caretakers/close ones tell you that you had a terrible accident and lost all memory after the accident. But then you find written agreements of your adoption, detailing that you were selected for an experimental form of adoption. This meant that your memory was wiped and your biological parents wiped out. You have been engineered by wizards/scientists to be the perfect human. You then find a note that the amnesia can be reversed if [plot hook] is done. A warning is written in big letters that reversing the amnesia spell might have unforeseen effects."
58,"You spent most of your childhood and early adulthood as a farmer, the difficulty of your daily work offset by the amazing times you've had with friends and family. One day, you hit your head on a rock. When you next awoke, you were in leather armor, on a sailing ship as part of an adventuring party. An entire life of adventure, riches, and excitement unfolded, and as you lay down for the last time, surrounded by your allies and loved ones, you woke back up with a pain in your temple, 3 seconds after hitting your head. You can't feel comfortable any more as a farmhand, you need a blade in your hand and a bag of loot at your side."
59,"You're a wandering conman, appearing trustworthy as you bend others around your finger, making yourself invaluable to them with the hard work and amazing success you provide. Every time you leave to fulfill your life's dream of finding a perfect spouse, you leave behind a trail of heartbreak, impossible upkeep, and new businesses doomed to fail."
60,"You'd probably say that you're about 605-615 now. The years go by in an instant. When you were young you devoted your life to meditation. Recently, you were visited by a boy, who you began to talk with, and would do anything for. He lived, trained with you, and eventually succumbed to age. You, now unquestionably ancient, you have no clue how to interact socially or succeed in anything else, but you want to see what world the boy left behind for you."
61,"You've spent your entire life underground, in the same building. Every day, a music box played you a lesson. You learned languages, numbers, history, how to act properly in society, how to assassinate the high king. Now, the doors finally open and you see the outside for the first time. It's time to use all that you've learned."
62,"You've always been able to talk to the trees. They tell you interesting things. How they are, what they feel, how those who pass through and around them respect or disrespect them. Recently, the trees have been quieter and quieter. You need to find out why, for their sake... and yours."
63,"You were drunk. Your low marks in Thermo meant you wouldn't be on the dean's roll this semester. Your parents were going to lynch you. You spend the night weeping, stumbling into a dark part of campus you didn't recognize. You made a deal. You thought they were going to intimidate your professor for you. You woke up in a hay bale, with no phone poles in sight. You get a strange feeling that you won't be graduating this year."
64,"You were an orphan. Your parents died in a plague that went through when you were small and, to care for you, the town council apprenticed you to the local gravedigger. For years you served, learning the ins and outs of the physical and spiritual side of dealing with death. You learned about your god, the patron of death, from the gravedigger, but his worship always seemed a bit hollow, a little too rote. One night you picked up the sacred text he kept on the small shrine in your shared chambers and read it. You became shocked and dismayed at the disparity between the soft platitudes your guardian parrots and the dire truths uncovered in your god's scriptures. That night the gravedigger, his home, your entire life burned to the ground as you set off to become the god of death's most faithful servant ever."
65,"Born to caravan guards, as a child you traveled with merchants and learned to sort goods, haggle, fix wagons, spot danger, and cook meals on the road. You met all sorts of interesting people who paid to be guarded by a convoy. Now that you have come of age, you want to explore some of places you heard about."
66,"You are the 11th child of 14 siblings. Instead of hanging around your cramped home, you spent your waking hours in a nearby library, learning, sorting books, and doing sums for others for small fee you brought home to your parents. You have come of age and hope to write a book one day that will sell tens of thousands of copies."
67,"You were raised in a dragon's den. One of your parents was a dragon's favorite and the dragon allowed your family to take up residence in his/her home. They, and you once you were old enough, provided services such as greeting guests, expelling uninvited intruders, maintaining inventory, cleaning, and cooking fine meals. You have fond memories of playing in a piles of gold, stirring a 2000 gallon stew pot, donning magic clothing and weapons, leafing through esoteric books of powerful magic to look at the pictures, and attempting to outwit your draconic landlord with whatever puzzles and games you could think of. You left on good terms at the same time the dragon's youngling left to establish its own territory, and you hope to carve out a bit of the world for yourself as well."
68,"You were raised in an abandoned necromancer's lab by intelligent skeletons and various other undead. You ran a lot of errands, being tolerant of sunlight and unlikely to send the whole town fleeing for the hills. Your main mentor was a flamboyant skeleton with a hat of disguise and a penchant for long-winded but thrilling tales of ages past. Armed with ancient weapons, some minor alchemy materials, the lost necromancer's notes, and the skills your undead family taught you, you now walk the earth. You are quite open-minded about creatures of the dark and undeath, but having seen the goodness they are capable of, you are intolerant of undead who would exist at the expense of others and visit cruelty on the living."
69,"You were born into a clan that viewed those born with magical power as evil. During your coming of age ceremony your powers awakened and you found yourself surrounded in arcane power. Fearful of you, the clan leader cast you out. Now you roam as an exile from your clan trying to understand your powers."
70,"Your birth was a summoning deep in the forest, and you recall the face of your first parental figure was sheer disappointment. Summoned as a readymade adult, your memory of childhood is non-existent, and less helpful, your summoner teleported away the moment you arrived nude on the mossy floor."
71,"You don't remember your father at all, but your mother says that they were the most handsome and talented bard in all the land. Each day you wonder what adventures he must be on, as your village has nothing for you but chickens to pluck and hogs to hang. With nothing but pitchfork and hoe in hand you set out, determined to find your father, or at least bring back a story for the folks back home."
72,"Your father was a blacksmith, but he's not truly your father. Your mother cheated on him years ago and he knows it. Whether it's true or not you'll never know. He hates you for it nonetheless. He did the bare minimum a father needed to do until you were old enough then kicked you out despite your mother's plea's. You stole the greataxe(or preferred weapon) he was withholding until the customer paid and left your old life behind."
73,"You were orphaned at the church of (insert God of Strength, War, Valor here) where you were raised from a young age to become a fierce warrior for your God."
74,"When you were young, you had a thing for fire. It was pretty, destructive, and alluring. One night as your family slept you were playing with it and accidentally set the family home ablaze. Your mother awoke to the inferno and using every once of power she had saved you from the blaze before succumbing and burning up right in front of your eyes. It was the most beautiful thing you ever saw, and if only the world understood, then maybe they wouldn't be so afraid of fire."
75,"Mistress tells you that you used to be a great Paladin. A sworn warrior of good, bringing justice and light to a terrible land. Then you came to her and Mistress may be the strongest enchantress there is, maybe stronger. Now you are Mistress's defender, a (insert Warforged, Golem here)."
76,"You are ... were a member of the city watch. Now, you suppose that you've likely lost that position. Just like your father, you were signed up and joined their ranks at quite a young age. You were far too low of a rank to call your job fulfilling or exciting, but you didn't really mind it all that much. After work you'd spend about half a day's pay drowning your boredom in booze. You've always had a love for a good brew, but you never thought it much of a problem. Until recently. It seems one night you decided to go on a week long binge. What few memories you have are too fuzzy and disorienting to make any sense of. How you're alive, you don't know. During your blackout, you seem to have somehow made it to somewhere you don't even recognize. You're wearing equipment you don't remember acquiring. You accidentally set off a cantrip, despite the fact you've never even seen magic at work, let alone use it. Some guy just told you that you asked him to get you up so you could go meet with someone about a new job. You decide that you need to figure out what happened and that maybe you really do have a drinking problem."
77,"You grew up alone in a rather large and well kept house, no parents that you can remember, or relatives you visited, but food would always appear out of nowhere in the pantry, as did gold in the sofa and water in the well. One day, you woke up on the ground, the house having completely disappeared from existence. In its place, a note remained, reading 'Stay Strong!' Of course, you began adventuring from there."
78,"You narrowly escaped your home city after a nasty plague was set upon it. The man who helped you escape was a high nobleman, and you later heard that he was culled along with much of the city. That city was your home, you loved it, and now it is all but gone."
79,"You were a member of minor nobility that got wiped out by a conspiracy, so you fled to a monastery. But then you got kicked out for tricky one of the priest(ess)es into breaking their vows of chastity."
80,You were part of a desert caravan that ran out of water. But a vision appeared leading to an unknown oasis ... and commanding you to go to the city of (Plot starts here).
81,"You were raised by a lovely mother and a father that turned out to be a true polymorphic gorilla. As a result, some of your beliefs and habits are a bit ape-ish."
82,You were born in a tribe of nomadic people. In your young age you and your parents got captured in a raid and sold as slaves. Your family got lucky because you have been sold to a noble. His castle was in a cold region with hard winters. He was a brutal leader but fair to everybody who did as he told. You learned the etiquette of the royal court and got along very well. As you became an adult he gave you to another lord to become a soldier. Their kingdom was at war. On the way to your new owner your caravan got raided by their enemy. You somehow escaped. A few days later you found out that your former lord has been attacked and everyone including your parents were murdered. You left the kingdom and never came back till today.
83,"Born an orphan, you were adopted by a wealthy family at a young age to be raised as help. (How the family treated you growing up is up to the player.) Shortly after your 18th birthday the entire estate is burned to the ground and you are the only known survivor. You are suspect and wanted by the local, kingdom for questioning and crimes against the family. Can you clear your name before the kingdom picks you up, are you to blame for the fire, or are you innocent and wrongly accused? Will you be able to find the villain in time?"
84,"A retired member of the army, you have been jaded by war, seen far more than any one person aught to see in a hundred life times. After settling down and manning an inn for some years, you've gotten the itch for adventure, and now ready to strike out on your own and see the good in the world."
85,"Given up as sacrifice at a young age by a small village to insure their harvest, you were picked up by a band of traveling performers. Growing up with them you traveled the country side. Upon reaching adulthood, your adopted parents told you the truth of where you came from. Do you venture off for revenge? Do you forgive and forget?"
86,"Sold into slavery at young age, you where set free by traveling adventures early in your teen years. Since then you have always dreamed of becoming one yourself. Not wanting to waste away your life tending to home and hearth you've set out for the call of the wild."
87,"Daughter of a diplomat, you traveled the world's capitals with your father. You grew bored of the stuffy and bureaucratic business and roamed the foreign streets and markets. It is here you fell in with a dashing rogue who stole your heart and taught you the secrets of his world over one glorious summer. You resolved to embark on a career of your own choosing, not your father's."
88,"A radiant portal spit you out. The last words you remember were 'Penance'. Aasimar know who you are, but won't disclose it even under torture."
89,Raised by pirates you raided the wrong temple and you were the sole surviver.
90,Raised by ogres they always threatened to eat you growing up. You payed them tribute and grew above the goblin ranks. Eventually you made your bid for freedom by poisoning all their dinner. You are a legend amongst the goblins and ogres.
91,"You had a normal childhood in the city. Schooling, family, friends, playing on the large stone walls...but all that was taken away in an instant when 200 hollow-core Warforged self destructed... leveling the city you once called home. Their master and her apprentice long dead you hunt down the last of their demented toys to honor your loss and make the burn marks on your back hurt a little less."
92,Taken in by a pack of traveling werewolves you were given a silver necklace and acted as their cover. You outed them in a city and you were finally liberated. Their daughter still hunts you... waiting to find you alone.
93,"As an orphan you were taken in by a sweet, old, good-natured necromancer. You fetched goods from the nearby city, helped dig up parts, played with his creations... You left on good terms and you have no fear of the undead."
94,Your heart opens a portal to the Nine Hells... according to the prophecy.
95,Your family is known amongst all Dragonborn...and loved for your ancestors deeds. Which was promised in blood oath to never be disclosed to you.
96,"You grew up seeing visions of battle in your dreams. Horrible, cruel visions of a war far away. You share a soul with a Warforged on another continent...and you are seeking each other out."
97,"You were raised by giant eagles. You learned to flush out prey and perform menial tasks in service to your sky lords. Eventually you got too heavy to carry and they all abandoned you...all except your rookmate Kyla. She was the runt, left to die, and always keeps an eye out for you."
98,Raised by dwarves in a mountain hold it's no wonder you have such a surly disposition. You know the runes for entry into most dwarf fortresses and can drink ale with the best of them. Switch this background to 'Halfling' and 'farm' if PC is a dwarf.
99,Raised in a lighthouse on a lone island you would danger the rocks to salvage whatever you could from the unfortunate ships scuttled on the rocks. This made you a strong swimmer. Be it pirate or merchant your family name is well known and appreciated for the work they do.
100,You were forced to murder your family when they became vampires. The town didn't believe you and now you are on the run. Rumor is one of your family survived your gruesome attack...

d100,Entry

1,The Flaming Dragon - A spicy beer that causes the user to breathe fire when they burp.
2,"The Banshee's Breath - white, swirling liquor made from a special translucent wild berry. Tastes sweet, has an effect similar to mint gum in that it always feels cold."
3,"The Mountain's Bounty - A fine liquor made using water from a glacial stream. Always refreshing, and always makes you feel cold no mater the weather."
4,Mawxie - A drink all the locals cite as a local treasure. Tastes disgusting.
5,"Bog Grog - A mix of Rum, Orange Juice and fermented herbs that, when drunk, causes the user to gain advantage on saving throws against being poisoned for 30 minutes."
6,Frost Mead - Honey and the tear of an Ice Giant make this shot. The crackling blue sparkle and the jet of icy breath you have for rest of the day is worth the expense.
7,"Weatherbee’s Whirler - Invented by the perhaps too inventive Filbus Weatherbee, this drink is testimony as to why it is a bad idea to point a gnome’s sharp mind towards the creation of a new brew. After spending many years living among the dwarves, Weatherbee made his way home with a drink even the stout folk couldn’t handle. This monstrosity is laced with latent magic designed to lessen the chance of drinkers dying from its ungodly alcohol content, and reportedly tastes like “A kick in the face from a horse.” After one shot of this drink, the drinker is shunted into a chaotic haze of blurry awareness, bolstered confidence, and overpowering drunkenness. In addition, the latent magic in the brew causes minor, uncontrolled magical effects to occur around the drinker at random times during the haze. The nature of these effects is up to either the DM or the player, so long as the effects are sufficiently insignificant. After 1d4 hours, the haze drops away and the drinker immediately and almost violently falls into a deep sleep so that they may recover."
8,"Dragonborn Bloodwine - When you drink it, you are able to use a breath attack once within the next 10 minutes."
9,The Quieker - nasty rum that gives a high pitched voice for 1d4 hours.
10,Faerie Fireball - a delicious cinnamon whiskey made with a touch of Fey magic. Causes uncontrollable hiccups for 1d4 hours. With each hiccup a small cloud of shimmering breath is released.
11,"Lily in a Well - a tall mug of ale, half full with an edible flower garnish."
12,Hammer Beer - One glass will make you feel like you just hit yourself with a hammer. Minus 5 HP.
13,Dragon's Piss - A beer that tastes exactly like one would suspect by its name. For sure not a drink you need a second one of.
14,Shamrock Shake - Instant dc15 con save. On fail the patron is incapacitated. No save required if patron has Irish (sounding) accent.
15,The Sun's Glory - A citrusy cider that makes your eyes glow like an Aasimar.
16,"Black Midnight - A drink created by necromancers to honor fallen necromancers, Bitter with a touch of rum. Those who drink it have nightmares of dying and spending an eternity rotting away inside a coffin. This helps enforce necromancers to contemplate their own moralities."
17,"The Phoenix - A peppery drink that burns on the way down, and then again on the way out. It is often used as a prank on drunk companions, who have a nasty surprise waiting for them the next time they go to relieve themselves."
18,"Hair of the Bloodhound - Once you have become intoxicated on this brew, you gain the usual drawbacks of drunkenness but gain advantage on survival checks."
19,Seer's Solution - A mildly viscous green liquid. The first two shots have no effect. The third gives you truesight up to 60ft for 1d4 minutes. The fourth and subsequent shots give the drinker horrible audio/visual hallucinations for 1d4+2 hours. Counter resets at dawn.
20,Spider's Bite - Take 1d8 poison damage on a failed CON saving throw. Packs a mean punch.
21,"The Fortnight - Very strong alcohol. If you actually drink enough to get drunk, you stay hammered for days."
22,"Tinkerer's Tincture - dark and smooth, and when you drink it all the clicking, whistling, and scraping noises are more apparent to your ear."
23,"2 Couples in a Shared Household - (much easier if teabags exist) Two different types of hot tea, 2 of each, into one mug."
24,Sucker Punching a Rabbit - A single teabag steeped in the biggest mug you have.
25,"Buried Treasure - A single, very sweet, rather expensive hard candy is stuck to the bottom of a mug of very hard liqour. Once you've drunk it all, you get a spoon to pull it off with."
26,Ouch - Two full shots worth of lemon juice put into a glass of very high proof alcohol.
27,"What was I Saying? - An unassuming shot of very strong alcohol, with a cherry in it, usually taken in the middle of a conversation, which is promptly ended."
28,"Actual Torture - 2 Teaspoons of salt which are to be eaten all at once. Then washed down with a citrus based liquor. If anyone else offers any drinks, their hands are free game for attack."
29,"The Green Kobold - The first drink to ever be served in a piece of ham, with the skin. 1 shot of herbal liquor wrapped in ham. To be eater all at once. Probably fixed in place with at least 1 pin, make sure you pick it out before you eat it."
30,"End of the Line - Very high quality, rather expensive alcohol. A coin is flipped. If heads, your drink is free. If tails, you are forced to drink until you either die or pass out. If you regain consciousness, you must continue drinking."
31,"Traffic Stop - Invented by a Diviner. Whenever a fight seems to be brewing, everyone orders a traffic stop. It's a mug of 3 separate liquors that stay separated in their mug, all very strong.The goal is to drink it all before the local police forces arrive."
32,"Dragon Milk - not really milk, or related to dragons. It's an expensive white drink, resembling milk (duh) that removes any alcohol in your body. As a result you exale fire in the form of a single burp, resembling a dragon."
33,The Necromancer - a drink for those who fall unconcious from alcohol. It's a green glowing liquid. Also known as the 'Corpse Reviver'; when poured into the unconcious persons mouth he/she gets up and walks in a way similair to a zombie.
34,Beholder - a delicious drink decorated with an eye or multiple smaller ones. Feels like normal alcohol but gives the person a (false of course) feeling he/she has multiple eyes after drinking enough of it.
35,"Elysium - a nonalcoholic drink that smells and looks as bad as it tastes. Some compared it to trash, vomit or even excrement but only because they couldn't find the adequate foul words. Most refuse to look at it, let alone allow it to come close to their nose. Only those with the strongest will manage to gulp it down. Once drunk, the person experiences true bliss, which seems to last for decades. In reality it's a few seconds."
36,"Nine Steps - commonly known as 'The Niner' or by it's full name 'Nine Steps to Hell'. It is a liquid that when left to settle separates into 9 parts, the bottom one being pure black and the top a beautiful red with a gradient in between. After drinking it the person seems frozen for a few seconds, but to the person who gulpes it down it feels like days, weeks, maybe even months of 9 different experiences, all basically a form of torture. Often used as a torture method but sometimes drunk to prove ones mental strenght, as those that can't endure it go insane. The niner is a rare drink because it's extremely hard to make. An amateur making it, if the ingridients aren't correct to the milligram, makes a drink that causes instant death."
37,"Honey Pine Dew - An imported halfling mead, served in small cups. Very pleasant taste, cheap in halfling towns, but expensive elsewhere."
38,"Cubed Spirit - This drink is served as a hollow ice cube with liquid spirit within. As the ice melts in your mouth the drink will come out. How exactly this novelty drink is produced, is a well kept secret."
39,"Milky Way Whisky - A light blue drink that tastes like very watered down, sweetened milk with a lot of alcohol. Besides giving a quick buzz, it also gives bone, and thus teeth, a blue fluorescent glow for 1d4 hours."
40,"The house special - This drink doesn't have a particular name, but it's cheap. It doesn't really have an effect. In fact, you're pretty sure the bartender is simply casting prestidigitation on dishwater to make it raste like like it has alcohol in it."
41,"True Dwarven Stout - A strong drink, not recommended if you cannot handle your alcohol. Traditionally served on the rocks, literally. There are pieces of stone lying on the bottom of your drink. Said to give the true mining flavor. This drink will make any dwarve feel very nostalgic."
42,"Petralias Wine - A very expensive wine that is served as a single droplet. It does nothing for thirst or getting drunk, bit the flavor is said to be very concentrated and the lack of drink quantity should make the experience richer. Typically ordered by very pretentious people."
43,Golden Goat - Fermented goat milk and honey.
44,Star Liquid - A really black drink resembling the night sky. If you drink it you experience a wonderful journey trough the stars for 1 min.
45,"Polymorphic Brew - Commonly used in drinking games, this brew will turn the user into an animal when they burp. They turn back about a minute later."
46,"Insom's Ale - has same effects as a long rest, calming."
47,"Lilphina’s Lusty Lover Liquid Liquor - The bottle comes in two parts, with each part having a different hue of color depending on the flavor. When two persons consume the drink within 5 minutes of one another, their minds are swapped for 1 hour."
48,"Piña Colossus - a rare colossal pineapple hollowed out and filled with rum, coconut cream, and pineapple juice. Usually a shared drink. The pineapple shrinks in size when the liquid is drank or spilled. It will also continue to expand and grow to colossal proportions the more liquid that is added."
49,"The Coup de Grace - At the end of the night, the bartop is wiped down with a rag, the contents are rung into a shot glass."
50,Drippzt - The drops in the bottoms of emptied kegs mixed together and dyed black. Anyone who can drink a pint of it without vomiting doesn’t have to pay.
51,"Firebreath Ale - If someone drinks it and then breathes into a flame, a 3rd level Fireball is cast centered on the flame."
52,Belching rum - After trunking this make a con save. On a failed save the effect takes place immediately. On a success you choose when to have the effect take place (After ten minutes the effect takes place no matter what.) Effect: You belch thunderously. Everyone in a 100 foot radius is defened for one round.
53,"The Titans brew - A regular tasting ale served in an enormous cup, and after drinking it the receiver grows a few inches."
54,"Paladin’s Bane - sweet enough to tempt the righteous and you hardly taste the alcohol, but it’ll give you a decent hangover and diabetes to boot."
55,"Goodberry Gin - if you drink enough of it, it works as a mild healing potion which may or may not compensate for the damage done to your liver or you falling down the stairs while drunk. 1d6 hp healing, 1d4 drunk damage."
56,"Hagraven Brandy - though it has a taste as ugly as its namegiver, the appearance of everyone around you will exponentially improve with every sip you take. -3 on Charisma saving throws for 1d6 hours."
57,"Will-o-the-Whiskey - whisky with minor hallucinatory effects, starts with a tiny tingling light in the corner of your eyes, ends with a shining orb of light dancing a few yards away from you, moving away as you try to catch it."
58,"Mandrake Mocha - a hot creamy beverage with a narcotic effect. Dulls the pain, leads you into a deep slumber."
59,"Madman’s Mead - downing a mug causes a fleeting bout of insanity, roll a d100 for effects of Short-Term Madness."
60,Ochre Stout - a cheap drink so thick you can taste chunks in it. Best to swallow and not be curious.
61,The Drunken Dwarf - a pint of dwarven stout with a teabag in it.
62,"For (local deity)’s Sake - a local sake or rice wine, popular with priests."
63,"Ciderella - a sweet apple cider, considered “a girls drink”. Even the toughest bloke will begin giggling like a little girl after a few drinks."
64,"Jalapálinka - a fruit brandy spiced with hot peppers. Burns the throat, downing a pitcher leads to steam escaping ears and nostrils."
65,"Ginger Ale - Wait, this doesn’t taste like ginger at all... An ale that turns your hair ginger, effect lasts for 1d6 days."
66,"The Maiden’s Ass - a quadrupel beer, served in a bottle with a donkey and a pretty girl on the label. Sweet but strong."
67,Bock Bear - a bock beer that gives you +1 Str and extra body hair for 1d6 hours.
68,Polypilsener - turns you into a canary for 1d4 minutes. Drinking half a mug will turn you halfway into a canary.
69,"Our Thoughts and Prayers - a brandy that works as a reverse Detect Thoughts spell; surrounding people learn your surface thoughts, although you’re unaware of it. Range increases with 2ft each glass, though your thoughts don’t exactly get more coherent."
70,"Smirgnome - a vodka that fills your brain with the weirdest ideas, although the morning after you’ll likely have no memory of inventing a sunlight-storing clockwork pigeon to hunt vampires with."
71,"Abbathor’s Gold - a clear golden mead that does nothing to quench your thirst - instead, you crave more of it. Roll a Charisma saving throw (DC 10) after each glass; if you fail, you keep drinking. After 8 glasses you pass out for 1d10 hours."
72,"Coala - a Dwarven invention, this black bubbly drink tastes like grinded coal with sugar, but also makes you feel reinvigorated and less tired."
73,Cinder - a spiced cider served hot. You can control non-magical flame that fits within a 1ft cube for 1d10 minutes.
74,"The Umber Hulk - a pint of whisky, brandy and tequila in equal measures. Good luck."
75,"Bottomless pint - the bartender pours beer into a ceramic mug. When the patron pulls the glass up to their mouths, they realize that the mug really doesn’t have a bottom. The mug is empty, and the beer has been pour through the mug into a hole in the bar with a pitcher underneath."
76,"Copperhead - the bartender pours a beer, mixes in a shot of whiskey, and then a couple drop of snake venom from a vial. Normally drinkers will feel numb in their extremities. If a drinker fails their saving throw, they will be paralyzed from the neck down for 1D20 minutes."
77,"Brazenbrew - Served in a special mug laced with bronze, the drinker is more apt to make outrageous claims of ability, but also gains the relevant luck to succeed while still under the influence."
78,"Yam's Choice - A delightful mead, high class, has a fair chance of being extremely addictive. Withdrawal is applying two effects from the long-term madness chart, and one from the short-term chart."
79,"Witchwood Absinthe - A potent spirit the color of a moss-covered tombstone. It has mild hallucinogenic properties, and local folklore holds you can hear the voices of those you've lost if you drink enough. Not too much, though. You might join them."
80,"Salty Dog Ale - A dark, rich brew that reminds you of the sea. Plopping in the shell of a sea snail for good luck is customary, and adds a fitting salinity to the drink."
81,"Hymvaren's Luck - A bright, golden-colored beer named after a local drunk who woke up on the beach after a night of carousing with a chest full of pirate's treasure. He claims to have no memory of that night."
82,"Bourbon of Dwarfkind - makes the user start to grow a beard. If they can normally, you see accelerated growth. If they can’t, a few hairs will sprout on their chin."
83,"Old Mill Rye - tastes alright, has a strange aftertaste in the back of your throat of an old sock. It's cheap and gets you drink"
84,[Insert local diety's name] brew - Has characteristics that reminds you of said god. Gold for sun worship for example. Hint of cinnamon for a hot and fiery one. A hint of licorice root perhaps
85,Ochre Jelly Ale - Ale with safe-to-drink ochre jelly mixed in it.
86,"A regular glass of water - That’s it. It’s just a normal glass with regular, boring water inside."
87,"Mimic Drink - Usually sold by tricksters to play pranks on people. Looks like a regular glass of water, but a tiny water elemental/water weird is disguised as normal water."
88,Liquid Nitrogen - Drank by frost giants and other beings that can tolerate extreme cold.
89,Mead of invulnerability - Once drunk user makes a DC 15 Wisdom check. On a fail believes they are immune to all damage and if damage is dealt to them believe they did not take the damage. Effects for ten minutes. User still take all damage as normal.
90,"Inverted rum - when you drink it, every one around you in a 15 foot cube becomes drunk. This dose not include yourself."
91,"Goblin Spit - whiskey and gin mixed with the barkeep's home-made mints. It tastes surprisingly good despite its name. As is tavern tradition, a long-distance spitting competition occurs after every round."
92,The Hook and Slider - a cooked goat (?) intestine tied and filled with a heavy beer. After finishing the beer chow on the intensive
93,Lucky Leprechaun - A sickly green drink that gives you advantage on Charisma checks for one hour.
94,"The Tiamat - 5 different shots, one for each color of the different heads. One is black and syrupy, one blue and gives tingly feeling, one is on fire, one is green and tastes a bit minty, the last is white and frosts the closest things. They are mixed together and separate in the cup making a very nice presentation."
95,The Sweet Roll - flavors of cinnamon and sugar blend with the strong scent of rum. The drinker gains an additional 1d4 to any pickpocket attempts for the next hour.
96,"The Sailor's Spirit - There once was a cap' and a crew, Who made the most wonderful brew, From rations of lime, They would in their spare time, Make fine drinks no man could outdo."
97,Good Hearth's Brew - A hot spiced rum which is popular during long winter nights for the immediate feeling of warmth and calm that follows.
98,Tarnation - A strong spiced cider served warm and traditionally drank as quickly as posible after a boisterous cheer or a lewd drinking song. Enchantmented with the effect of the consumer belching a small flame right after ingesting.
99,"Gnome Rum - Makes your voice high, squeaky, and annoying."
100,"Ethereal Ale - The more intoxicated you get, the more you fade into the ethereal plane. First you become slightly transparent, than objects start to phase through you from tame to time and if you manage to keep drinking you entirely enter the ethereal plane."

d100,Entry

1,Hold it under flowing water for 30 minutes.
2,Hold it in direct moonlight for 30 minutes.
3,Yell at it in anger. (Charges twice as fast during combat.)
4,Whisper 'I love you' into it.
5,Throw it in the air as high as you possibly can.
6,"Treat it like the most begrudgingly accepted, and most hated object you have in your possession."
7,Pack it in the flesh of an undead creature.
8,Touch a demon with it.
9,Attach item to a string of three or five feet in length and wave in a circle overhead until string breaks.
10,Take a piece of shag carpet and rub the item until your hair stands on end or it sparks.
11,Soak it in Holy Water.
12,Heat in fire until hot to the touch.
13,Hug the item close and whisper to it as if a lvoer to 'please come back'. (Much better if sentient and is 'knockec out' when discharged.)
14,"Hold it out away from you until you feel the win take the item away, then chase and catch it back."
15,"Change something in the item for a different color. Example, change the handle wrapping for a differently dyed cord. You can't use the same color again for a week. (The item has a sense of fashion!)"
16,Play a one sided game of chance (Like craps) with the item siting on a chair across from you. It recharges if you win against it.
17,"The item recharges on its own but only if the users apologizes for harming people with it, or helps bury them if killed. If even one victim is left out, the item won't recharge unless the user begs mercy to it for an hour for each victim left behind."
18,"The item recharges after it hurts a dozen of people, with its magic or in some other way. Items that works by charges reload a charge for each person hurt."
19,Get an mundane item of the same type as the magical one and leave the two touching for 10 minutes. The same mundane item can't be used again.
20,"Shower or bath with the item at hand, equipped or sheated at your side."
21,Find a way to let the item make a decision for you and stick to it.
22,"Tell the item something you will never do with it, without noting it down, without repeating it and keep your word."
23,"You dream a name often. If you meet someone with that name, without saying a word, hold the item out to them to take it from you, don't resist if they do it. The item recharges at dawn and if it not with you, it appears on your bed."
24,"At any point in your day, put the item in your view and draw it along with the scenery and show the drawing to it."
25,Lay the item for the night with another item that needs to recharge. They both do so normally.
26,"Smash a coin with the item until it bends or breaks. Any old copper will do and the item suffers no damage from this, ever."
27,"When discharged, the item rusts. Let it steep in water and it will form a poisonus tea that causes nausea for an hour to you, and recharges when you drink it."
28,Try to seriously bite off a piece of the item.
29,Kiss someone while holding the item.
30,Trace it along a star constellation.
31,Whisper your deepest darkest desire into it.
32,Bury it and leave it undisturbed over night.
33,Cut of and tie a strand of hair around it.
34,Wear it close to your heart for a day.
35,Stab it into a recently killed body and let it drain the blood for 3 hours.
36,"Throw it as far as you can. Next time you setup camp, it returns to you."
37,Hold it without letting it go for 2 hours.
38,Carve the symbol of a Demon Lord into a surface. You take 1d4 psychic damage.
39,Get some one who doesn’t know it’s magical to kiss it.
40,Cook it over a flame.
41,Boil it in blood.
42,It only actually recharges if people become slightly uncomfortable with the lewd action that you are performing with it.
43,Cry upon the item.
44,Physically spin the item for 5 minutes.
45,Impress the item with a story of personal achievement.
46,Bring the item to somewhere it has never been.
47,The item will gain a charge for every 5 seconds it is touching nothing/suspended.
48,"The item will disappear to a hard to find location within 50 feet of the owner. Once it has been found, it will have full charges."
49,Bathe it in the blood of a monstrosity type creature.
50,Repeatedly stroke it and call it your 'precious' throughout the day and night.
51,"Hold it lightly between your thumb and index finger, and whisper loving words to it. Loving words must be heartfelt."
52,"Herbs and spices added to dough, which are then wrapped around the item and baked."
53,The weapon has taken damage from a powerful necromancer. You need to seek a druid grove for a specific plant to coat the weapon in to repair the damage and charge the weapon.
54,Bury it 10 feet underground for a week to let it absorb some of the earth's (or whatever planet's) power.
55,Use it as a cooking implement.
56,Have a gnome sneeze onto/into it.
57,Treat it to a nice evening at the theater.
58,Sing to it an ancient song.
59,Use it as a musical instrument.
60,Make it the punchline of a joke.
61,Let the item see you naked.
62,Intimidate it (DC 15).
63,Break a piece of it off.
64,Let someone else use it.
65,Climb to the top of a certain mountain.
66,"Throw it into a lake, then come back the next day and the lady of the lake will give it back to you."
67,Kill a friendly NPC.
68,Kill a worthy opponent alone.
69,Sacrifice a proficiency and the memories associated with it.
70,Get into a brawl with an innocent person.
71,Sacrifice a finger/toe.
72,Dip it in lava.
73,"Eat it, it will reappear in your hand once you've finished."
74,Sell it and steal it back.
75,"Feed it. Not blood or souls, just regular food. Set out a plate and goblet. Place weapon or item on the food. Turn away. Food slowly disappears when you aren't looking."
76,Slightly bend it until you hear a pop and bend no further. Wait for the glow to dissipate before reuse.
77,Polish with the juice of a rare fruit.
78,Give it as a gift (permanently).
79,"Rub one side with animal fur, then the other side with silk. (If that sounds like nonsense, google 'friction rod')."
80,Use this instrument to play a song it's never played before.
81,Let rest the item in a comfy place for 2 hours (or other duration said by your DM).
82,Using the item in a different way than it's using purpose (like cutting apples with an fiend-killing sword).
83,"Make a tear from a sentient being (or the attuned owner) run from one end of the item to the other (pommel to tip of blade, for example)."
84,It can be left out and naturally covered in dawn's dew to regain one charge.
85,It needs twenty four consecutive hours of (near) silence to regain one charge.
86,"It can be gifted the user's voice for twelve hours to regain one charge. (This could be like the little mermaid or the item could control your voice, or just the user loses their voice for that time.)"
87,"Smells more fragrant the more charges it has. Once a day, if left unwatched in contact with flowers, it will consume them and regain a charge."
88,"As above, but smells more foul the more charges it has, and eats goblin feces."
89,"A silver bird that flies away if released, regaining one charge when it seems to have fully escaped."
90,Keep it in your mouth for twenty four consecutive hours.
91,Scar your own body with it.
92,Give 10% of your party's (non-equipment) wealth to the poor/charity.
93,Don't eat any food for 48 hours. (First fast attunes the item).
94,Feed it memories.
95,Cut a dwarf's beard off with it.
96,"It charges on fear - if someone is feeling scared nearby for one week, it will regain one charge. This time can be split up. (Variant - Focused fear of the item itself has a much greater range, and is worth 7x the charge power, meaning one person focusing on their fear of the item for 24h will give you one charge.)"
97,Polish it to a mirror finish.
98,Screaming at the top of your lungs at the weapon for 6d10 seconds a day.
99,Have a long drawn out conversation with the weapon explaining why it should recharge.
100,Tuck it in to bed.

d100,Entry

1,Barn Owl Mask: grants advantage on perception checks that rely on hearing and sight.
2,Oni Mask: grants advantage on intimidation checks.
3,Cracked-clay Jester Mask: holds 5 charges of friends and one charge of charm person. Once all charges have been used the mask crumbles to dust.
4,Luchador Masks: take advantage on grapple and acrobatics checks.
5,Mask of Many Faces: This mask gives you advantage on deception checks to pretend to be someone else.
6,"Mask of Othersight: This mask begins blank, but can be re-sculpted to resemble the face of another person. The name can also be carved in. While worn, the wearer cannot see in front/around themselves, but does see essentially through the eyes of the person represented by the mask. Depending on how powerful the person represented by the mask is while the mask is worn, that person may or may not be aware of the fact."
7,"Spider Mask: While wearing the mask you ignore movement restrictions caused by webbing, Once per long rest you can use the mask to cast the spider climb spell as an action."
8,Wolf Mask: Grants advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell.
9,"Winter Wolf Mask: Grants advantage on Wisdom (Perception) checks that rely on hearing or smell, as well as advantage on Dexterity (Stealth) checks made to hide in snowy terrain."
10,Mask of Silence: Anyone who sees the wearer of this mask will forget seeing them as soon as they look away.
11,Mask of Mediocrity: penalty to remembering the wearer. Could also take effect when trying to follow them in a crowd.
12,"Deathmask of the Whiteface: +2 rounds of Raging if barbarian otherwise taking damage can (wearer's choice, free action) trigger the spell Uncontrollable Rage for 2 rounds, forcing the wearer to attack the source of the damage."
13,Mask of the (pick an animal): At the beginning of their turn the user can shapeshift (as the wildshape druid ability) into the matching animal lasting until the end of their next turn.
14,"Mask of the Dragon: wearer has a breath weapon that can be used once per short rest corresponding to the color of the mask, 30ft. Line 4d6 damage. Curse: the wearer cannot the remove the mask without making a DC 18 Wisdom save made only once per day. While wearing the mask they gain the flaw: 'I sometimes forget that I'm not the beast this mask resembles.'"
15,Mask of Mechanus: An uncomfortable piece made mostly of metal and clockwork. While wearing this mask a creature rerolls every 1 and 20. They must take the second roll.
16,"Mask of Juiblex: Not so much a solid piece as an ooze that is rubbed over the face and head and remains there. While wearing this mask, a creature can move through a space as narrow as one inch wide without squeeze. A creature wearing this mask must eat a full meal every hour or suffer 2d12 acid damage as it begins to consume itself. Curse: A creature must succeed on a DC 15 Charisma saving throw to remove this mask. A creature can only attempt this saving throw once it has finished eating."
17,"Mask of Mystery: A creature wearing this mask is proficient in Charisma (Deception) checks. If the creature already proficient, it doubles its proficiency. In addition, a creature can cast Alter Self once a day."
18,"The Iron Mask: requires attunement by a monk. While attuned to and wearing this mask, a creature rolls an additional die for each unarmed strike."
19,Mask of the Fey: This beautiful mask was created in the feywild by a fey creature of great power. A creature attuned to and wearing this mask is always under the effects of the spell Glibness. A creature wearing this mask during a long rest has a ten percent chance of being plane shifted into the court of the mask's creator. Curse: This mask can only be removed by its creator.
20,Mask of the Monarch: Advantage on persuasion checks for buying/selling items.
21,"Aku Aku Mask: This wooden tribal mask has feathers across the forehead and glowing yellow eyes. A sentient and good hearted shaman spirit lives within. the wearer has a +1 bonus to AC and may cast Arcane Lock once per day. The wearer gains Nature proficiency, but disadvantage on Intimidation. The wearer LOVES FRUITS. If a wearer of the Uka Uka mask is met, they shall each compare their wares. Whoever has a greater total gold value of GEMS gains 3 health and 5 speed PERMANENTLY."
22,"Uka Uka Mask: This wooden tribal mask has sharp teeth, glowing yellow eyes and a beard of leaves. A sentient and evil shaman spirit lives within this mask. this mask is CURSED and cannot be removed without harming the face. It grants a +1 bonus to AC. The wearer may cast Knock once per day. You gain poison and necrotic resistance, but Silvered vulnerability. You gain Intimidation advantage, but disadvantage with all other CHA checks. If a wearer of the Aku Aku mask is met, they shall each compare their wares. Whoever has a greater total gold value of GEMS gains 3 health and 5 speed PERMANENTLY. OPTIONAL: The wearer may spend 1 day crafting 1 stick of dynamite which requires a Dex, Int, and Wis check."
23,Mask of Angels: This porcelain mask features a beautiful womanly face with closed eyes. The porcelain has a slight golden hue and gleam to it. Healing spells the wearer casts can critically strike (double healing). The mask sheds dim light and the wearer can cast Light at will. Once per day the wearer can choose to re roll a dice theyve used to determine a healing total (from a spell they cast).
24,"Mask of the Fallen Angel: Looks identical to the Mask of Angels, but has a slight black hue to it. This mask is CURSED and it dims the light around it. It grants the Chill Touch cantrip and necrotic damage resistance. All standard healing damages you, and instead you may use Chill Touch to heal yourself, undead, or any evil character (1d8 + modifier of YOUR CHOICE). If you are hit with a healing spell, or radiant damage you can choose to double the damage you take. When you do so the eyes of the mask open wide and the mask lets out a horrifying Banshee Screech. All creatures that hear the screech must make a con save. If they fail they lose Half of their total health and are deafened for 1 turn, if they succeed they take 3d6 psychic damage."
25,"The Grand Jester's Smirk: This porcelain mask features a laughing face and a wide open mouth, and has all manner of colours and inlays on it. Inside the open mouth is just a black void, but if it is inspected a Jack-In-The-Box pops out. The mouth is in fact a 2x2 foot bag of holding. The wearer may cast Tasha's Hideous Laughter 2 times per day, however they may also choose to do so telepathically by succeeding a Charisma check."
26,"Sludgy Ooze Mask of Goop: This disgusting mask is dripping with ooze. It may be any colour. While this mask has eye sockets and a mouth, they are mostly obscured by the ooze constantly emanating from it. The wearer has resistance to physical damage. The wearer can cast Sludgeous Form once day, which is like gaseous form but they cannot fly and look like sludge. 10 feet movement speed and climbing speed in this form. this mask is not cursed but requires a strength check to remove."
27,"Scarecrow Mask: This mask is CURSED and cannot be removed unless it is ripped from the face. Once the wearer is cursed, they walk in a bowlegged manner and their movement speed is reduced by 5. This mask is made from burlap, and has a half sown half shredded mouth. This mask grants immunity to the frightened condition. The wearer may cast Cause Fear 3 times, and Fear once per day. All critical hits (including intimidation) cause the frightened status effect. Once per day the wearer may (as a bonus or reaction) cause a frightened target to become incapacitated and scream for another turn."
28,"Bandaged Mask: A mask of bandage wrappings, that has some strands loosely hanging off and others stained with dried blood. This mask is CURSED. This mask has a slight smell of flesh putrefaction. It grants 1d10 health regeneration per turn. General injuries heal within minutes, and a major injury (like a broken bone) can be healed in a matter of days. If the body is healthy, the mask compels it to begin to grow cancerous tumours in different places. The only way to stop this is to have to body become injured so that the cancer is not the focus of the regeneration. If the cancer is left to grow the wearer will eventually turn into a gibbering mouther."
29,"Broken Porcelain Mask: This porcelain mask features cracks across it. The bottom right of the mask, from the jawline to the cheekbone to the chin is broken off. You can just make out the expression of terror carved into the remaining features of the mask. The wearer has 120 feet of tremorsense, and can cast earth tremor at 4th level once per day."
30,"Scorched Dryad Mask: This wooden mask features a head crest of branches. The entirety of the mask is scorched wood and it smells like charcoal. The wearer may roll a d20 if they are hit by fire damage. If they roll 11 or higher, they are healed instead. Being on fire gives the wearer inspiration that scales up to a d12 for being on fire each turn. They may designate one of their weapons to adopt the Flametongue trait and may cast Aganazzar's Scorcher from the weapon once per day."
31,"Sabretooth Skull Mask: This mask is part of the skull of a sabretoothed tiger, without the bottom jaw. The eyes sockets are large, and the top jaw features 2 massive fangs that extend downward. The fangs can be removed and used as daggers. The wearer can cast Locate Creature once per day and has advantage on the first strike against it. The Located Creature has disadvantage on perception checks against the wearer."
32,"Plague Doctor Raven Mask: Smells of pleasant incense (replace each week). Grants you advantage on madness conditions + ALL crits (spells, melee attacks, but also intimidation, persuasion, deception) force your targets to make a save for a short term madness condition. Roll a d100 for the result of the effect."
33,"Mask of Anubis: Coloured black and gold, this mask gives you advantage on death saving throws and gives your targets disadvantage on saving throws if you brought them to 0 HP. Those you slay may be interacted with as ghosts for a short time before they are sent to the afterlife (1 hour)."
34,"Jack of Blades Mask: If you die, your soul is magically transported into the mask where it may remain until you choose to move on to the afterlife. Anyone who puts on the mask can hear and speak to your soul. Until they take off the mask, you can keep talking to them."
35,"Mask of Drought: This red clay mask is cracked all over, resembling soil that has been drained off all water and cracked. This mask grants fire resistance, and Con save advantage from heat exhaustion, and grants the ranger's Natural Explorer trait for DESERTS."
36,Triceratops Mask: a large bone or wood mask with lots of potential for war paint. This mask grants the triceratops gore+trampling charge attack once per long rest. Damage is 1d8+5 at level 1 and scales with level. Only the target takes damage but every unit passed through must make a strength saving throw of decreasing difficulty (simulates momentum loss) or be knocked prone. This mask ALSO grants a +1 to AC when attacked from the front (90 degree).
37,Dragonturtle Mask: This mask is turtle coloured and features the dragonturtle's menacing hooked beak. This mask grants the dragonturtle's steam breath ability once per long rest: 2d6+2 at level 1 and scales up. It ALSO grants +1 bonus AC when attacked from behind. Hidden ability: gain inspiration if you roleplay as a TMNT.
38,"Cthulhu Mask: Roll for colour. Straight up immunity to madness. Once per long rest you may cause ALL intelligent creatures in a 30 foot cone to make an INT saving throw. If they fail they spend the turn incapacitated and screaming. If they succeed they each gain 2 WIS for the duration of combat. If this is abused for WIS gains, you can summon Cthulhu to annihilate the PC."
39,Dwarven Runebeard Mask: This mask has a beautifully carved runic beard. You gain the effects of Belt of Dwarvenkind. You can also mine significantly faster and you have a strange affinity to pickaxes.
40,"Mask of the Faceless: This mask causes your face to appear completely indiscernible and have all of its features obscured by a churning shadow. Your intentions, alignment, goodness/evilness are completely obscured. Insight does not work on you and you cannot be charmed. In fact, being charmed gives YOU inspiration. Spooky."
41,"Leshen mask: The wearer can phase through trees. This costs half your movement. The more its abused, the more prone the wearer is to exhaustion."
42,"Guy Fawkes Mask: This mask grants proficiency in CHA saves. Once per day, it may be activated with a command word to grant advantage on charisma checks for 1 hour."
43,"Gladiator Maximus Mask: Specifically grants the Gladiator's By Popular Demand feature from the character backgrounds (Entertainer Variant). Adorning this mask gives the wearer opportunities to gain inspiration. This effect is triggered on all combat crits and killing blows. For such an event the wearer can choose to perform it with some 'pizazz': choose to make a performance, athletics, or acrobatics check. If successful, gain inspiration."
44,"Mosquito Mask: Huge eyes, antennae, proboscis. Once per long rest, you can spend 10 minutes siphoning the blood of a fresh victim. This heals half of your total health and grants 2d10 temporary Hit Points. Try not to get aids."
45,"Bunny Mask: Cute or creepy, your choice. Your speed is increased by 10 feet. You can cast Jump 3 times per day without expending spell slots. Once per day you can also choose to force an opportunity attack to miss you if the hit lands."
46,"Berserker Mask: This mask reminds you of skyrim. It grants Rage Beyond Death. In combat, if you drop to 0 hitpoints, you can choose to go unconscious or not. You still make death saving throws. You immediately go unconscious if combat ends after using this effect, and you wake up with one level of exhaustion. 1 use per day."
47,"Valkyrie Mask: This mask resembles a beautiful womanly face. It has wings on either side. It allows the wearer to cast Compelled Duel once per day. Whenever entering combat, if you are not surprised you can also choose to yell a morale boosting battle cry that acts as a weaker version of the Bless spell (does not grant a persistent d4 bonus, only a 1 time use d4 inspiration to 3 characters of the wearer's choice)."
48,"Predator mask: This wide mask has ornamented dread-locks, and large alien eyes. The wearer may cast Invisibility once per day. However, during this cast they may choose to 'target' a particular creature. A red dot appears on the targetted creature. The targetted creature has disadvantage one perceiving the predator. If the targetted creature is attacked, it always hits (you only need to roll if you crit or not). If you crit, you deal max damage. This mask also grants 120 feet of darkvision."
49,"Mask of Seduction: This mask resembles a succubus/incubus, though the wearer can choose for it to be hidden or not. If hidden, your eyes merely change colour to red. It lets the wearer speak and understand Infernal and abyssal. Once per day the wearer may cast the Succubus's Draining Kiss ability. This mask also grants advantage on performance and persuasion checks that deal with flirting, charming, being sexy, and sexing."
50,"Mask of Mimicry: This mask may resemble a feathery Raven, or any bird of paradise. The wearer is granted the Mimicry ability, that it can perform at will."
51,"Beholder Mask: This mask is merely a large eye. Its pupil may be reptilian or cat like or human or anything really. Roll for colour of the eye. The wearer may activate the Beholder's Antimagic Cone ability once per day. 120 foot cone of anti-magic that lasts 2 turns. At the end of the 2nd turn the wearer shoots an eye laser out of it. Roll for which laser is shot obviously. The laser must be shot unless an INT save is made. If it is failed, the wearer takes significant psychic damage."
52,"Blood Mage Mask: this porcelain mask is smooth and beautiful, except for the tears of blood coming from the eye sockets. The blood and the mask itself can be any combination of colour, but would most likely be found as a white mask with red or black blood. This mask gives the user a brand new spell: Shape Blood, which may be cast 2 times per day. This spell is exactly like Shape Water but is exclusive to blood. Damage is up to the discretion of the DM but my implementation is that it deals Magical physical damage (like silvered weapons)."
53,"Blood Knight Mask: This porcelain mask resembles a skull with its mouth sowed shut. Your melee attacks deal magical damage. Whenever you strike an enemy they must make a con save. each time they fail they suffer a bleed d.o.t. that increases per failed save. It scales as 1d4, 1d6, 1d8, 1d10, 1d12, 2d12, 3d12, 4d12 etc. The bleed stops after 2 turns if its effect is not refreshed. Blood doesnt heal you, but you do enjoy a glass with your dinner."
54,"Patron's Overwhelming Favour Mask: This porcelain mask is not particularly menacing, for it is very intricately made with many bright colours. Gold flairs and pseudo embroidery. Paisley shapes and the like. The wearer may add their Charisma modifier to all attack rolls. When you reduce a hostile creature to zero hit points, you gain temporary health equal to your level + Charisma modifier. You can hold your breathe indefinitely and you do not require any sustenance or sleep (you must sleep only to remove physical exhaustion). You gain 30 feet of Devil's sight AND you cannot be charmed. Once attuned, this mask CANNOT be removed unless the wearer wishes to rip their own face off. Donning this mask binds your physical body, metaphysical body, and entirety of your soul to a particular patron, no matter what class you are (even if you choose to rip off the mask)."
55,"The Trickster God's Blessing: This porcelain jester mask is simple, and merely has an unsettling smile carved in. The eyes show the same glee that a child shows as they burn ants with a piece of glass, not fully grasping the value of life. This mask compels to wearer to tell jokes and play tricks. Often times they are twisted ones. The wearer also gains inspiration for successfully tricking, riddling, or pranking others as well as for killing. This effect stacks. Once per day, If the wearer is hit, they can choose to roll a Charisma Save. If successful they can laugh off the damage, no matter how painful it was."
56,"The Mask of Manipulation: This porcelain mask is serious. Its eye sockets are straight and focussed. A 9 pointed star is carved into the forehead, and the lips of the mask are made of a very exotic material. This mask allows the wearer to cast Modify Memory once per WEEK, and Zone of Truth once per DAY, and friends AT WILL. This mask also grants the wearer the Awakened Mind Warlock trait. This mask has a special ability in which the wearer may command the mask to cast Ultimate Modify Memory which is the same as Modify Memory but effects any intelligent creatures of the wearer's choice up to a max radius of 1 Mile (no saves required). Once this ability is used the mask loses all of its abilities for good."
57,"Hoppy’s Mask: While wearing this mask one small weapon such as a dagger or throwing implement becomes enchanted with a 2d6 Of necrotic damage. It also makes it so that the weapon returns to your hand after you’ve thrown it, or it is no longer in your hand."
58,Mask of Nightmares: You take on the appearance of what ever being or creature the observer is scared of. This could cause you to look different to different people as not everyone is scared of the same thing.
59,Grey Man Mask: wearer of the mask becomes uninteresting to all observers.
60,"Mask of Eyes: allows wearer to see in all directions, bonus to sight perception rolls"
61,"Skull Mask: causes undead to think you are just another undead. Intelligent undead will have a neutral reaction to you, so long as you don't do anything the angers them they will not attack you."
62,"Grim Reaper Mask: Grants wearer death touch (save or die) once per day. Also grants the wearer the ability to see spirits and the ability to send any spirit, soul, undead to its appropriate after life or Pergatory."
63,"Mask of Infinity: looks like any other kind of mask. If anyone other than the wearer tries to pull the mask off, it creates a copy of the mask. The wearer appears to be wearing the same mask under the first mask. This works no matter how many time they try to pull the mask off. If the wearer removes the mask they can choose to create a copy or actually remove the mask. Note copies start fading away after about 20 mask are created or after 1 minute."
64,Rebreather Mask: allows wearer to breath underwater and makes wearer immune to inhaled toxins.
65,SCUBA Mask: similar to rebreather mask except it makes a lot of bubbles when wearer breaths underwater.
66,"Mask of the Bat: strike terror in the hearts of villains, learn martial arts, build cool gadgets, & beat the crap out of villains."
67,"Mask of Swarms: The mask resembles a giant locust head, recreated in remarkable detail. A close look reveals that it was created using the exoskeletons and body parts of millions of other bugs. When worn, insects, bugs, spiders, roaches, and any other creepy crawlies emerge, creating a swarm that engulfs the wearer’s body. The swarming bodies make the wearer more difficult to target and absorb damage. (Adds 20 Temporary HP, and, when worn during the day, adds 1 to AC. When worn at night or underground, imposed disadvantage on attacker)."
68,"Mask of Brutality - This mask resembles a growling devil's face shaped from a single piece of a dark grey metal, save that the eyes and mouth are covered by bars like a prison cell. The mask, when put on, immediately deals 1d8 damage to the wearer as sharp needles pierce the skull and begin pumping a potent alchemical mixture of growth hormones and other substances into the cranial cavity, fiendish in nature. 2d6 rounds afterwards, the wearer gains a +5 boost to STR as their muscles bulge and swell, and their bones thicken. However, the mixture introduced into the wearer's body results in an equal penalty to INT, reducing the wearer to a drooling, beastly hulk. Removing the mask deals 2d8 damage to the wearer as the needles tear free of the skull; the effects of the mask wear off after a long rest."
69,"Mask Of The Half-Breed: This mask cannot be removed until the wearer is killed. When you are reduced to 0 Hit Points but not killed outright, you can drop to 1 hit point instead. You can’t use this feature again until you finish a Long Rest."
70,"Mask of Many Colors: This mask appears to be a muti-colored dragon skull. While wore the bearer transforms into a chromatic Dragonborn or Half-dragon of their choosing. If a Dragonborn or Half-dragon wears the mask they will transform into a full-fledged dragon. Curse: whomever wears said mask, has an overwhelming desire to hoard treasure, and to serve Tiamat."
71,Red Mask: choose an enemy before combat starts. It has disadvantage on Initiative.
72,"Iron Mask of the Hallowed Eve: A somewhat heavy mask with intricately carved patterns and runes. Presumably made out of some sort of iron, although it is impossible to tell. The wearer is immune to mind-affecting magic and is much harder to identify with magic."
73,"Mask of the Shimmering Rainbow: A mask crafted from simple cloth and wood, it seems to change colour over time. The wearer can cast Absorb Elements at will. In addition, they have advantage on saving throws to resist petrification, charmed, frightened, and magical sleep."
74,"Shadowy Mask of the Eclipse: The mask is always the colour of shadows, no matter what the light level is. The wearer gains 120 feet of darkvision, or an extra 60 feet if they already had darkvision. The wearer can also cast Darkness as a level two spell three times a day."
75,"Grinning Mask of the Serpent: This mask resembles a snake's head. The wearer cannot be frightened and has advantage on saving throws to resist charm effects. They also have advantage on intimidation checks and perception checks. However, they have disadvantage on persuasion checks."
76,"Mask of The Mask: An green tinged, hand carved wooden mask. Transforms the wearer into a ridiculous caricature of their former self (banana yellow zuit suit optional). Advantage on all Charisma/Dexterity rolls, +3 to Performance checks. When wearing the mask, you must make a DC10 Wisdom saving throw or suffer a bout of temporary madness."
77,"Mask of Lettuce: A large leaf of green lettuce pierced with two eyeholes. The wearer of this mask can polymorph into a head of lettuce for 1hr once a day. While they are a head of lettuce they retain their intelligence and wisdom, but all other ability scores are zero and they have 1hp. As a head of lettuce the player may speak to plants at will."
78,Mask of Crystal Vision: A crystal mask cut at many angles. It’s wearer can simultaneously see (and comprehend) at every angle within 30ft. While they are wearing this mask they are incapacitated.
79,"Mask of Temples: a triangular clay mask embossed with a brick pattern. The mask has 5 charges. Spend one charge to cast one of the following spells: Moonbeam, Stone Skin, Spirit Guardians, Meld into Stone, Lighting Bolt, Hallucinatory Terrain. Each spell can only be cast once per day. Regain 1d4 charges a day. If the mask ever has zero charges it loses all magical abilities and it just a mask."
80,Mask of Shadows: A black velvet mask with eye holes and no detailed features. The wearer can use the hide action as a bonus action while in dim light or darkness. Once per day the wearer may cast Gaseous Form on itself.
81,Mask of Barnacles: A wooden mask covered in barnacles — it is always wet. The wearer may walk across water (or other liquid surfaces) as if it were solid ground. Once per day the wearer may cast Control Water.
82,Mask of Maw: this silver tiger (or bear/lion/dragon) mask has row of pointed razor sharp teeth. The wearer may take a bite action as a bonus action. (Bite: +Dex to hit; 5ft reach; 2d6+3 piercing damage). Once per day the wearer may cast Fear as an action.
83,Mask of the Time Druid: A silver mask with no eye mouth or nose holes. Adorning the mask lets the wearer see 3 hours into the past. The wearer cannot hear any sounds from the past or present while the mask is on.
84,"Mask of the godmaker: The name of the mask is never capitalised when referred to, as while the being within the mask has godlike powers, every being who knows about it will agree that it is no god. The mask itself is seemingly unremarkable, a multi coloured mask which looks like it was made of paper mache by a child, and painted haphazardly. However, when worn, the wearer will come into contact with a power being that will grant any one wish to the wearer. However, the wish will be granted as broken as possible, similar to a djinn or genie, causing the wearer to slowly transform into a powerful beast that is themed around their wish, bent on destruction of everything they held dear, while screaming praises to the godmaker."
85,"Mask of the Godbreakers: a mask that is wrought out of cast iron, and has the symbol of a large hammer embossed on the front. The mask belongs to a line of hunters that are bent of challenging the godmaker, usually consisting of loved ones of the godmaker's chosen. When wearing the mask, the wearer can tap into the memories of those who had ever worn one of these masks, not just the mask they wear, as well as provide a mental link to others who wear the mask, allowing for a group of hunters to work in tandem perfectly. Said to be made from an older shattered mask, there are only a handful in existence."
86,"Mask of the Blinded One: a mask that resembles a bat, but is badly made, with the face being malformed, and the ears taking up much of the mask. When worn, the user loses all sight, and instead, is given the ability of perfect echolocation, being able to see with sound. Does not work well in places with a lot of hanging or free floating objects, such as in snow or the desert, but in solid places, such as caves and cities, is equal to or better than sight. Is capable of being used underwater. When removed sight is restored."
87,"The Perplexing Gaze: a large mask that encompasses the head, it resembles a human eye, veins and all, with a pink mass in the back resembling the muscles, as well as an optic nerve hanging from the back as if it was a pony tail. When worn,anyone who makes eye contact with the mask is unable to break eye contact, while no matter which direction they look at the mask from, it looks like they are still making eye contact. While eye contact is being made, all staring will have to make a roll to stop looking, with failed rolls causing them to be unable to do anything. User can cause the mask to 'blink', even though the mask lacks an eyelid, breaking eye contact with everyone, but stunning them for a round."
88,"Mask of the Forgotten Friend: A featureless mask, similar in colour to pale skin. Has no hole for eyes, nose or mouth, but allows the user to function as if not wearing a mask at all when worn. While it is worn, all but the strongest of minds will perceive the wearer as a friend or close one, but anyone who knew the wearer before would have no memory of them, simply knowing them as a friend. False memories can be implanted by suggestion from the wearer, but takes considerable skill to do well. If worn for too long, wearer can suffer from dissociative identity disorder or depersonalisation disorder, among other things."
89,"Dwarven mining mask - Designed and crafted by ingenious dwarven artificers and metal workers, this breathing mask was made to combat the dangerous brimstone fumes found deep under the earth. Grants the user immunity to any status effects and resistance to any damage from inhaling any form of dust or gas."
90,An organic 'mask' that’s akin to a facehugger. It slowly drains the wearers constitution until their death.
91,"Face of the Arbiter: A delicate clay mask without holes, shaped in such a way that it requires no straps in order to be worn. The face on the mask is stern and emotionally neutral, with sharp red lines accenting the hard edges and sweeping curves of the otherwise bland white face piece. While the mask is being worn by it’s bound owner, they are able to see through the covered eyes of the mask. The owner is able to detect a consciously made lie made in their presence, though lies made unknowingly and lies of omission are not detected in this way. If the bound owner asks a direct question to a single creature, the creature must make a Wisdom saving throw against a DC of 8 + the owner’s proficiency modifier + the owner’s Wisdom modifier or be compelled to truthfully answer the question to the best of their knowledge. In addition, the wearer of the mask is unable to knowingly speak a lie, directly or through omission. The supernatural properties of the mask can only be used by a single person, someone who had a part of their face removed and used in the making of the mask. A part can take the form of a small chunk of skin and flesh, a few teeth, or even a nose or an eye. The part is mixed into the mask, binding the article to the donator and making it so that the power of the mask can only be used by them. Upon the bound owner’s death, the magic is severed and mask becomes a normal face piece."
92,"Face of the Harvester: A delicate clay mask without holes, shaped in such a way that it requires no straps in order to be worn. The face on the mask is steadfast and peaceful, with orange, yellow, and green lines forming simple yet appealing patterns across the earthy tones of the brow and cheeks. While the mask is being worn by it’s bound owner, they are able to see through the covered eyes of the mask. The owner is able to identify and harvest plants with greater clarity and efficiency, giving the wearer advantage and doubling their proficiency modifier on Nature and Survival ability checks to understand and collect vegetation, so long as the wearer has proficiency in that skill. If the wearer does not have proficiency in one or both of the skills, they do not benefit from the mask’s bonus to that particular skill. In addition, the bound owner is more likely to receive a fruitful harvest while wearing the mask. If the bound owner harvests a plant while wearing the mask, the freshness and potency of the plant is extended for one and a half times the duration it would otherwise last. If the owner has actively and personally cultivated the growth of the plant, the freshness and potency of the plant is instead extended for twice its original duration. The supernatural properties of the mask can only be used by a single person, someone who had a part of their face removed and used in the making of the mask. A part can take the form of a small chunk of skin and flesh, a few teeth, or even a nose or an eye. The part is mixed into the mask, binding the article to the donator and making it so that the power of the mask can only be used by them. Upon the bound owner’s death, the magic is severed and mask becomes a normal face piece."
93,"Le Masque Noirci: This wooden mask covers the upper half of the face and has a few shallow scratches over the left eye that cannot be removed or fixed, no matter who or what tries to fix it. The mask was most likely originally stained either jet black or a dark purple, but the color has faded over time. While worn, the owner cannot discern between different colors, seeing the world only in shades of black and white. That said, they receive an empowered darkvision that can pierce through even magical darkness, even if things can only be seen in black and white. Said darkvision extends out to 60 ft., but if the wearer possesses normal darkvision that extends farther, the effects will carry out to that distance. If the wearer of the mask attempts to look directly at anything emitting a light, they will suffer from temporary blindness that lasts for 15 to 30 seconds as a result. According to an old journal entry found with the mask, repeated attempts to look at light sources will increase the blindness time exponentially, to the point where the effect is permanent."
94,"Face of the Terrified: A papier-mâché mask, vaguely resembling the face of a wide-eyed screaming humanoid. To work properly, this mask must be bound to over the course of a day, worn 24 hours by the desired owner. While the mask is being worn by an unbound owner, they find average things frightening and receive disadvantage on saving throws against the Frightened status. While the mask is being worn by a bound owner, they are instilled with a strange sense of courage, receiving advantage on saving throws against the Frightened status. Also, once per day, the user may cast the spell Cause Fear as a 1st level spell without expending a spell slot. While casting the spell, the mask contorts and emits a high pitched screech, layered over the wearer's own yelling."
95,"The Fencer's Facemask: If an opponent scores a critical hit against you while you are wearing the mask, roll 1d6 and subtract that from the total damage."
96,Surgical Mask: gain advantage on any medicine checks.
97,"Mask of the Hanged Man: A burlap sack around which hangs a noose. Upon putting on the mask, the rope tightens considerably, though not enough to choke the wearer. The fabric is ordinary sackcloth with a pair of scant eyeholes crudely torn into the front. The wearer must succeed in a DC15 Will save or become overcome with despair, suffering disadvantage on skill checks. Wearer can command the rope to attempt to grapple foes with advantage as a bonus action. Long term exposure to the mask causes 1d6 psychic damage per hour. Upon reaching 0 from this damage, the wearer simply becomes comatose, unwilling to move or take any action. Removal of the mask requires a will save of 15. This rough sack was the last thing that some condemned soul saw. As it hung with the recently dead, keeping them company as the carrion birds found them, it absorbed some malign energy."
98,Exfoliating mask - reduces blemishes and grants the user +1 charisma for 2d6 hours after wearing this mask during a short rest. Only usable once.
99,"The Statue's Shroud - a marble facemask that grants the effects of the spell stoneskin to the user while wearing the mask. However, the user's speed is reduced by 5 ft./round and is further reduced by an additional 5 ft every hour that the mask is worn. If the user's speed reaches 0, they are petrified and turned into marble."
100,"The Planar Visor - An obsidian mask with diamonds worth 100 gp each in the eye sockets. Wearing the mask and speaking the name of a plane of existence will allow the wearer to see into that plane through the eyes of the mask for 2d4 hours. One the time is up, the diamonds are absorbed into the mask and new ones must be placed in the eye sockets in order for the mask to work again."

d100,Entry

1,A broken compass that always points South-West.
2,A slightly burnt map of the immediate area.
3,A boar roasting over an open flame.
4,"A silver dagger wrapped in a tight washcloth with a note tucked inside ""I love you always. Stay safe. ~Nana"""
5,A small tin mirror and a shaving kit. A cloth with blood stains right next to it.
6,A basket full of mushrooms next to two mushroom piles. A Herbalists Guide opened to the 'Deadly Mushrooms' is open not far away.
7,A few knife opened cans of preserved herein.
8,"An opened, but hardly touched, bottle of alcohol."
9,A deer hide half way through being tanned.
10,A massive stew bubbling on the fire.
11,Damaged leather armor halfway through being mended.
12,A small notebook with notes on which local plants are and aren't safe to eat.
13,A suspicious amount of rope.
14,A sack filled with rotten food.
15,Some broken arrows.
16,A fire starting kit.
17,A canteen filled with clean water.
18,A canteen filled with dirty water.
19,A longbow with a ripped string.
20,"The skeleton of a dog, with it's leash still on it, and tied around a tree."
21,"A bird trap, without a bait."
22,A rusty kitchen knife.
23,Some novel books.
24,An unreadable diary.
25,A cooking book.
26,A collection of rare seeds.
27,A broken flute.
28,A mimic disguised as a backpack.
29,A glass flask messily labeled “Alchemist’s Fire”. It actually contains a highly-potent cinnamon whisky.
30,1d4 gold coins.
31,"A dirty, well-worn towel with the words “Don’t Panic” embroidered on it in large, friendly letters."
32,A deck of playing cards.
33,A potion of healing.
34,"A small dutch oven buried in the coals of the campfire, filled with chopped potatoes, butter, onions, and spices. It's perfectly cooked and still hot."
35,"A rough-looking book, one page bookmarked by a filthy ribbon, filled with orcish writing. If translated, the marked page is a recipe for ""Elf Pudding."""
36,"A practically new bedroll, half-covered with dried blood."
37,"A large, round, rusty shield just outside camp...covering a latrine."
38,A small pouch filled with dried pieces of fruit.
39,"A half dozen rusted, bent, iron tent spikes."
40,A simple urn with ashes inside.
41,A set of stacking wooden stools.
42,A bottle of keogthom's ointment with 1d4 uses left.
43,A burned-out bedroll.
44,A crate full of nets.
45,An axe head lodged deep in a log.
46,A bag of rotting food scraps strung up in a tree.
47,An unusual pattern of burn marks in the grass.
48,A few human teeth in among the campfire ashes.
49,A vague map drawn in the dirt with a stick.
50,The half-eaten remains of a giant spider.
51,A jar filled with various levels of multi-colored dirt.
52,A compass whose needle always points to the last person who put it down. The needle is currently spinning.
53,A single leather boot that looks like it has been clawed by a large animal.
54,A sprite hiding behind a log and watching the party.
55,Four arrows surrounding a space in the center of the campsite-in the middle sits a frightened little girl.
56,A hand shovel.
57,A worn whetstone.
58,A blanket made out of rat skins sewn together.
59,A set of wood carving tools.
60,"Extensive fishing gear: bait, tackle, rod, net (especially good if you're nowhere near water)."
61,"Shovel, pick axe, bucket."
62,Bear trap.
63,Net with an unidentifiable rodent sleeping in it. Possible dead.
64,A wagon with two nearby oxen who've been disconnected from their harness.
65,Fish skewered and stuck into the ground near a fire pit.
66,A small cask of ale.
67,A clothesline that's been hung up between two trees.
68,A hammock strewn between trees.
69,A blood-soaked patch of ground.
70,A semi-tamed wolf.
71,A noise causing trip wire upon entering the camp.
72,A sack of peat.
73,A tent emulating a far off culture.
74,A political pamphlet.
75,A can with a string attached leading into the woods.
76,An oil lantern hanging on a weapon rack.
77,An ogres broken tusk.
78,One dandelion in a pot.
79,A giant glass jar with a maelstrom of rainbow colored mayonnaise inside and a spell book in front open to notes. The left page about making storms of substances and the right how to make alchemy mason jars that take the contents of alchemy jugs and make grenades of said substance for creating difficult terrain. Another page sitting tucked half way under the spell book talks about making storms from the contents of alchemy jugs for jarred storms. A closer inspection of the jar and they find a storm caster shrunk down trying to create spells in secret and if they get his attention he will come talk to them.
80,"A campfire set up to be lit, a box of cooking tools, and drag marks away of what looked like the camper and the catch the camper was going to skin and cook be it fish, rabbit, or deer."
81,Three hats that could only fit a giant.
82,A fire that can't be put out by any normal means.
83,Large and small footprints that insinuate a battle. And then only small footsteps and large drag-marks.
84,A small cloth bag with a dozen or so indigo blue glass marbles and two opaque red ones.
85,"A small leather bag full of ceramic beads, each carefully split in half."
86,"A dirty, roughed-up picture of a happy family."
87,A pile of rocks someone has been collecting for an unknown purpose.
88,A tent which is covering the entrance to a burrow. It goes on for an untold number of feet into the earth.
89,"A pair of binoculars, a wooden whistle, and a diary with drawings of birds."
90,A wooden contraption that has drying plants pressed between two planks.
91,"A bundle of twigs, some string, a needle, and a half-made basket."
92,A sash featuring numerous embroidered patches.
93,"A clay bucket with sticks, detritus, and collected pillbugs."
94,"A large, quickly-carved totem pole at every path leading to and from the campsite."
95,A belt with a hidden space to keep a knife.
96,A plate with a half-eaten meal on it.
97,A conch shell. It allows you to hear the ocean away from the ocean.
98,A DC 7 investigation check reveals a golden amulet hastily buried with the symbol of a major trading guild.
99,"What looks like the hilt of a sword with it's blade embedded in the ground. Upon pulling it free, you find it is just a very large spoon"
100,A book of different kinds of tall tales to tell around the campfire.

d100,Entry

1,"Gorthaur, The Gargoyle Lord, is the darklord of a great gothic city full with gargoyles and statues of all types, many of which are coming to life at night. Evil and cruel as those gargoyles are, their presence is the only thing keeping away the evil spirits threatening to annihilate the city."
2,"Gulgolatha, The Skull Lord, was a supremacist elven king (eladrin) who led a genocidal campaign against all other races, seeing them as inferior and impure. His plans backfired, resulting at the destruction of his kind. Now he is a skeleton warrior with long white hair and ornate armor, sitting on his throne among the ruins of his once magnificent city, his sword which turns flesh into dust in his hands. Surrounded only by ghosts and skeletons, he is fully aware that the other races thrive while he belongs to history - but still dreaming that his time will come..."
3,"Archimenes, The Nihilist, was a philosopher who preached so convincingly his philosophy of nihilism and meaninglessness, that the people in his kingdom were all persuaded to end their lives, and he was left alone, unable to die himself. He has the power to convince anyone at his pessimistic philosophical views (nihilism, immoralism, determinism, materialism etc.) with logical and scholastic arguments; those visitors he doesn't persuade to kill themselves, he sends to other domains to spread his destructive ideas."
4,"Jezebel, The Harpy Queen. She wanted so much children of her own, so when she found out she couldn’t conceive, she stole others' babies and children, taking them to her castle and never letting them out. Cursed to become a harpy, she and her harpies' clan now terrorize the people of her domain, many of whom bind their children to heavy-weighted chains or lock them in cages in an attempt to keep them from being taken away."
5,"The Man in the Yellow Hat. Mastermind of crime, the white-skinned, ever-grinning Man in the Yellow Hat is a truly bizarre, creepy character, capable to grotesquely twist and change his body, control his surrounding, pull strange objects and creatures out of thin air, and perform other cartoonish fits ignoring physics and logic. He has a sick sense of humor and absolutely no morals, and always plans insane crimes to shock and terrorize the city. Nobody knows his identity and background, and nobody suspects the real lord is not the man but the yellow hat possessing him - a hat containing the soul of a mad artist, failure in life but all-powerful in his death (Inspiration: imagine a combination of Judge Doom from Roger Rabbit, Jim Carrey's The Mask, and Batman's Joker)"
6,"Lilith, the Mistress of Souls. It is uncommon to see a whole domain holding a 10th old girl at such awe and fear, but it is understandable when this girl is the current reincarnation of Lilith Lathenus, the matriarch of the noble Lathenus family, who has been reincarnating through her granddaughters for hundreds of years. Ever calm, controlled and unemotional, Lilith has the power to manipulate souls; she has a collection of thousands of souls stored in bottles, dolls and other vessels, which she may instill into a living, dead or inanimate bodies, torture, sell, consume or anything else. Some whisper the ravens bring her the souls of the deceased. Though everyone fears Lilith, many come to her asking to have their beloved ones' souls instilled into new bodies, or other requests, which she might grant - for a price."
7,"Anita, the Lady Wasp. This insect-themed domain is swarming with all kinds of insects, normal, giant and monstrous. The darklord Anita is a werewasp, sadistic priestess of Calistria, who tries to keep the balance of power between her, the assassin weremantises and the conspiratorial werespiders (see 'entothorpes' in Pathfinder Bestiary 6)."
8,"Graf, The Unseen Troll. The forests, mountains and under-bridges of this Nordic domain are inhabited by ravenous trolls. However, the human denizens don't believe in trolls, considering them nothing more than children's legend. When cattle or people are missing or found devoured, it will always be attributed to bears, bandits or natural causes. Even if someone actually sees a troll or attacked by one, he will forget it a moment later, believing the experience to be something else. When troll dies it becomes a stone, so no evidence is left to his existence. It is all part of the curse of the dread troll lord, who wants humans to fear and respect trolls, but can't make them even acknowledge their existence. (Inspiration: the movie Troll Hunter)"
9,"Kazan Khan, the Great Conqueror, was once the great Khan of the vicious Neuroni Horde on the prime material world of Barovia. He was a ruthless conqueror who razed cities and slaughtered whole populations, piling up huge pyramids of severed heads and offering their souls to the demon lord Irlek Khan. He believed his people were destined to rule the world, but his great empire came to an end by when he was assassinated by the Baal Verzi. Now he exists as a giant ghostly head, hovering inside an oriental palace full with maddening illusions of exotic grandeur and horrors, issuing commands in a thundering voice. The tribes of the Neuroni live in the vast planes of the domain, still proud and ruthless, but now just a shadow of their former glory, to the great dismay of the Khan."
10,"The Grand Possessor. People of this domain are often being possessed by mysterious entities. Each possession lasts from several minutes to couple of hours, during which the possessed behaves like a whole different personality. There are about 20 documented recurring possessors (though many more might exist), each with a unique character and behavior, some are just weird or embarrassing and others are extremely malevolent and dangerous. When a possession is recognized, the people around will usually try to contain the possessed or simply avoid him until the event is over. The darklord is a greater possessor who knows to disguise himself well, and may inhabit anyone at any time, forwarding his malicious plots gently or brutishly at his will. His (or her, or its) nature, background and goals are mystery. (Inspiration: the book Pandemonium by Daryl Gregory)"
11,"Tor-O-Gon, The Caveman. On a world of advanced technology, Doctor Egon was a scientist who abandoned all morality in name of scientific progress. The Dark Powers made him a chief of a cavemen tribe (who mispronounce his name as Tor-O-Gon). Now is forced to lead his tribe in a dark, Paleolithic domain, teeming with prehistoric beasts and primal spirits, forever devoid of progress."
12,"The Empty Woman. Somewhere in the mists stands The Empty City, a large, abandoned, decaying city, inhabited only by the souls of the lost and the damned. Visitors tend to get lost in the city, wandering for days without finding the way put. Somewhere in the city is the dreadful Empty Woman. The black holes of her eyes and mouth, and the cold emanating from her, reveal she has done things that would make other darklords go pale - culminating in deicide. She is looking for several hundred items scattered and hidden about the city, the gathering of which will enable her to complete her unfathomable goal. She might send visitors to search them for her, offering them freedom if they agree and devouring their souls if they don't. The search for the items requires terrible tests and prices though, almost surely damning the seekers (see The Holders series on the net for inspiration to such tests, and The Lost Room TV series)"
13,"Emil, The Scarecrow. This small town is populated by grotesque, crudely-made animated scarecrows, mannequins, patchwork folk (see Book of Shadows) and other animated objects. The scarecrow darklord rebelled against his human creators and killed them, leading his 'people' into this land of their own, where they 'live' in mockery of human lives. He can animate and command any artificial object, and hates true humans more than anything else."
14,"Vashti, the Naga. Beginning her life as a human slave, Vashti worked her way up into a concubine and then the king's mistress, using seduction, manipulation and lies. She poisoned the queen and strangled her children to ensure her position as the new queen and mother of the heir. The Dark Powers transformed her into a giant naga, making her the lord of a small jungle domain. She dwells in a hideous temple in the heart of the swamp, surrounded by smaller nagas, snakes and serpentine monsters she despises. More than all she hates women, whom she has grown to see as competitors, and for whom she saves the worst tortures."
15,"Zarizinia, The Gremlin Princess was an elven princess who always loved making harmful pranks and embarrassing-to-deadly mischiefs to anyone around her. When her mischievous behavior became too evil, the Dark Powers gave her the hideous face (which she often hides behind a veil) and scaly skin of a gremlin. Now she rules the humans, elves and gnomes in her domain from her heavily booby-trapped palace, served by her hosts of gremlins and gremishkas, and no one is save from her mischiefs."
16,"Kasar, the Centaur was once a human warlord, the champion of the Bright City, who led his troops against the savage human and demihuman tribes of the wilderness. He slaughtered them mercilessly, seeing them as nothing more than animals. An ambush made him sink with his horse in a quagmire; he emerged as a giant black horned centaur. Kasar is now cursed to roam the ever-darkened wilderness of his domain, surrounded by monsters and wild creatures he loathes. In a role reversal, he tries in vain to lead them against the Bright City in the center of domain, the only place where the sun still shines, but he is unable to enter it."
17,"Hagatha, the Spectral Hag. The people of this small domain burn every woman at the stake on her 40th birthday. Most women go willingly though tearfully to the stake, knowing that every day past this age the chances are growing for them to transform into monstrous hags and devour their beloved ones. The source of this curse is the spectral hag lord of the domain, who was burned at the stake herself, and only by destroying her can the curse be lifted."
18,"Louis, The Rat King. The rightful heir to the throne, he was thrown away to the sewers as a child due to his deformities, while his good-looking brother inherited the kingdom. Growing in the company of rats, the Rat King - now a truly twisted, three-headed giant rat-thing - returned with a revenge and an army of disease-infected rats. Now he rules his plague ridden, debris filled kingdom from his crumbling castle, never seen in public. His domain reflects Europe during the Black Death, when fear and superstition ruled, and vile magic and twisted creatures abounded."
19,"The Great Fog. This once thriving metropolis is locked now in a perpetual heavy fog, obscuring sight and making breath difficult. There is no escaping from this foul, dark miasma. The population has greatly dwindled, and the remaining denizens are struggling to survive in this hellish atmosphere, find supplies and fight against madmen, bandits, wild dogs and obscure monsters. The fog itself is the darklord, feeding on the fear and despair of its prisoners, though who or what is it and how did it come to be is unknown. (Inspiration: the short story The Fog, by Morley Roberts, in Strange Tales from the Strand, and the movie The Mist)"
20,"Uzhos, The Ogre. He was a brutal bandit, taking by force anything he wanted: money, objects, women. Now he is an unstoppable, horrid-looking giant ogre, who can easily take everything… but all those things are simply too small to be of any use for him. He terrorizes the villagers in his domain, bending his frustration on them in cruel methods."
21,"Daniel De Silva, The Lord of Sin. The horns on the head of this vile tiefling force people to tell him their darkest secrets and desires, which, at his bidding, they act upon. Whenever someone in this domain gives in to his or her desires, he or she becomes more fiendish-looking, sprouting horns, tails, scales, forked tongues etc. Many denizens revel at their fiendish looks, while others struggle to resist temptation and keep their purity. The darklord believes all humans are perverted inside like himself, and coming upon pure souls, he will do everything to corrupt them and prove his point. (Inspiration: the book and movie Horns)"
22,"Gustave Tooms, The One-Eyed King. In the land of the blind, the one-eyed man is king. This darklord, who lost his eye as a child, infected all of his kingdom with mystical plague, making everyone but him permanently blind. He now rules the community of survivors, using and abusing them at will, since they know they utterly depend on him to find food, medicines and supplies. His eye is playing tricks on him though, showing him things that aren't there, and his great fear is to lose his sight or connection with reality. (Inspiration: the books The Day of the Triffids, by John Wyndham, and Blindness, by José Saramago)"
23,"The Fly. The smallest darklord in Ravenloft, this priest of Baalzebub has committed such horrible atrocities that he was cursed to become a fly. He is still very dangerous though, and may inflict illness and whisper madness, possess people temporarily by crawling into their brain through the orifices, and control swarms of flies. His most horrifying power is a curse transforming people into man-fly abominations. His domain is a city surrounded by marshes, heavily infested by flies, mosquitos and other insects."
24,"Lazaralin, The Wish Giver. When anyone makes a wish in this enchanting, Arabian-nights' style city of delights, the beautiful female genie darklord makes it come true - in a dark and twisted way, of course. The city is in a state of constant chaos due to all the wishes and counter-wishes made by all its dwellers and visitors all the time. No matter how harmful are the results, people never give up and always try to remedy the situation by more wishes (everyone can use up to wishes a day). The only wish the genie can't grant is her own - to be free from her enslavement to those pesky humans."
25,"The Faceless. This mysterious woman has white gown, long black hair and no face, only two wild eyes. She's got powerful psionic talents and is completely insane. Visitors in the abandoned, rusty town of her domain will be subjected to vivid hallucinations drawn from the darkest recesses of her and their subconscious and deepest fears. The closer they come to the Faceless, the more powerful and horrifying their hallucinations become, manifesting as phantasmal killers. But there are hidden messages in those mad hallucinations as well, and figuring them might supply key to escape. (Inspiration: Silent Hill and the movie Re-Cycle)"
26,"The Wendigo. An Indian-like shaman has channeled into his own body the evil spirit of the deer-skulled Wendigo in order to drive away the invaders threatening his people. He has succeeded, but now his evil is tainting his vast Native-American styled domain, and the lands of the tribes are plagued by evil spirits, demons and the undead. (Inspiration: Totems of the Dead and Deadlands RPGs)"
27,"Heidrich von Aizenshtat, Governor of the Living and the Dead. In this large city, the upper class and nobility are vampires, the hard-working lower class are slow-minded (though sentient) zombies, and the middle class are mortal humans and demihumans of several races. The mortals and the undead live in coexistence, and most of the mortals dream of the rarely given promotion to vampire status (so there is no lack of volunteering blood donators), and dread the punishment of demotion to a zombie. There is a constant tension however between the different fractions, derived from envy, fear, hatred, suspicion and prejudices, which often erupts in violent ways. The lord governor, a cynical business-like necromancer, and his council of necromancers have hard time keeping the peace and balance in the domain."
28,"The Alhoon. Everything looks peaceful in this lovely, sunny town. People live their lives happily, facing no unusual problems other than occasional sudden death cases, attributed to illness. The horrible truth however is that this pleasant reality is a façade, a constant mass hallucination broadcasted into the denizens' minds by an artifact from the alhoon darklord's tower, superimposed on the actual reality. In reality, the city is crumbling ruins, the air is filthy, and everything is dirty and decaying. Some individuals might get glimpses of the truth, and even notice the illithids monitoring the people, but they'll be treated as insane if they speak of it. (Inspiration: the movie Virtual Nightmare. Note that unlike the Matrix, the people here live bodily in the physical reality, only their perceptions of it are twisted)."
29,"Sasha Orlov, The Transmogrifist, wanted to be free of all categories, and gradually changed his body surgically and magically into a truly grotesque and alien shape. Now he/she/it wants to share with others his 'freedom'. He flies his floating domain, the Cathedral of Flesh (which looks like an abominable organic spacecraft, made from the twisted flesh and sinews of thousands of creatures), abducting people and uses his power of fleshwarping to help them 'ascend beyond humanity', causing lots of misery and madness."
30,"Sharana, the szarkai. This female szarkai (albino drow), the ruler of a powerful drow city, is cursed by a trait most uncommon among her kind: a conscience. She tries everything to rid herself of it, indulging in great depravities in her attempts to silence its voice, but it only makes her feel more merciless pangs of guilt and shame."
31,"The Amalgam. For many years, a crazy mage collected the evilest, most powerful ghosts and spirits from all over the world, trapping them in his Well of Souls, where they fought, devoured, consumed, mixed and merged with each other. When the final result finally burst out of the Well - an amalgam of dozens of murderous, insane ghosts - it was such a powerful and horrid being, that the Dark Powers immediately made it the lord of the surrounding city. Having killed since all the living citizens (making many of them lesser ghosts and undead), the Amalgam still haunts the empty city, waiting for more souls to torture, kill and add to itself. It has about all the salient powers from Van Richten's guide to Ghosts, and more."
32,"Melchizedek, the Eternal King. This unbelievably ancient, withered-looking vampire has ruled his kingdom for 10,000 years, leading it from the bronze age to the space age, from a savage tribe to a galactic empire. The Dark Powers returned him to his starting point; now he rules again a bronze-aged, biblical-styled domain, populated by tribes of idolators and demons-worshippers. He rules like a god-king from his city Ur-Shalem, commanding monstrous vampiric slaves (see Buffy's Turok-Han), but is endlessly frustrated from having to do everything all over again."
33,"Griffith, The Invisible Man, wanted to be famous and popular, but now no one can ever see him, and his frustration drives him to extreme violence. He rules a small clan of invisible men and women, formed when someone is being ignored and unnoticed for long."
34,"Alex, The Nerd. This large city is frequently terrorized by horrifying monsters and bizarre villains. Nobody suspects that the real darklord is an outcast, reclusive lad, with vivid imagination and the ability to make his imaginary creations come to life temporarily (as in Shadow Conjuration spell, but more powerful), which he uses to avenge himself on the society he doesn't fit in."
35,"Luciano, Lord of the Masquerade. In this large, colorful Venetian-styled city, everyone wears masks of all types at all times; being seen publically without a mask is outlawed and considered utterly immodest. There are several noble houses in the city, guilds, cults and other groups, each with their own style of masks; intricate conspiracies, schemes and plots abound everywhere, and one can never be sure who (or what) is behind the masks. Many unhuman beings are drawn to the city as well, easily camouflaging themselves among the masked population. The prince darklord is a Master of Masks (see D&D Complete Scoundrel) with a huge collection of magical masks, each granting him some powers and traits of the role he is playing now - but he is tormented by his inability to figure out his own true identity."
36,"Nekhbet, the Sphinx. The villagers in this small, arid domain practice all year's long to sharpen their minds and wits - talking in riddles, playing intelligence games, and learning philosophy and logics. It is all a preparation for the annual riddles contest, in which every denizen who has come to his or her age must walk into the Maze of Riddles inside the sphinx' temple and survive it. The sphinx lord plans the maze and riddles during the year, hoping to find some humans with brains… and hungry to devour the others."
37,"The Mothman. Shadowy figures with wings and burning eyes, strange lights in the skies, haunting whispers in the heads, weird sounds coming from nowhere, crop circles, memory loses, time behaving strangely, second moon appearing, unnerving dreams on disaster, odd patterns of weather and animal behavior, mementos from the past reappearing, madness, bizarre behavior, laws of nature lapse - all of those eerie phenomena and more haunt the rural, Twilight-Zoned domain in the shadow of the mothman. The domain is actually locked in a time loop of 3 months and then destroyed by some calamity and restarted again. Nothing is known on the enigmatic mothman, and whether he is trying to stop the disasters or initiate them. (Inspiration: the movie The Mothman Prophecies, and Pathfinder's Mystery Monsters Revisited)"
38,"The Haunter of Demons' Island. This stormy little island near Dementlieu was used in the past as a penal colony, but is abandoned now. Visitors will experience many unnerving signs of demonic haunting - shadows, sounds, hooved footprints etc. The phenomena are scary, and intensify with time, but the real danger is mirrors. The moment anyone on the island looks into a mirror, he or she will see the demonic lord's face peering behind his shoulder, and its horrific sight will drive them immediately, completely insane."
39,"Rothbart, the owl-headed wizard, terrorizes this forested domain, helped by his daughter Odil, owls, owlbears and giant ravens. He has affinity for birds and polymorph magics, and among the rest has turned the local princess and her maidens into swans, who can assume their true shape only at night. Many princes tried to save her but failed. He also cursed a beautiful woman to change into a hawk every sunrise, and her lover to change into a wolf every sunset, so that they'll never meet as humans. Rothbart hates humanity and takes pleasure from causing misery and suffering."
40,"Griselda, The Wicked Witch is the classical evil crone: wrinkled face, black dress, tall hat, flies on broomstick, cackles maniacally etc. She only wanted to do good and be helpful, but people always treated her like an evil witch and accused her of everything bad that happened, so she actually became one in return. The villagers of her forested, mountainous little domain fear her and still accuse her of every blight that falls upon them - and now they are often right."
41,"Jolly Roger (the original one), also known as the Pirate King, is a skeletal pirate ghost. He rules a large tropic skull-shaped archipelago, used by countless pirates' captains as their home and operation base. He draws the cruelest pirates from many worlds to his domain, offering them the opportunity to use the mists to raid many worlds and escape back - in return to their souls. When such ships drown, their crew become undead under his control. His curse is never to sail again himself."
42,"The Shogul. The mysterious Shogul are seven powerful entities (or one entity with seven bodies). They are the rulers of a dark Lovecraftian-Chinese domain of ancient cities, pagoda temples, bizarre stone monuments, odd slanted-eyed people and eldritch cults, where everything is done according to ancient traditions. The Shogul look like hooded figures in black or yellow robes, the only parts seen of their bodies are six glowing eyes for each and withered hands. They have the powers of wu-jen, but their true nature is unknown. Any wizard anywhere who knows the secret key of the Shogul, may access their collective minds network and learn their dark secrets and spells. The more he learns, though, the more the Shogul's influence takes over him."
43,"Anthony, The God Child. It is not clear how this little pampered boy became nearly omnipotent, but now all the denizens of his small, secluded village domain live in constant fear of him, doing their best to keep him happy and pretend to be happy as well. Those who even think unpleasantly about him… well, better not think of them. (Inspiration: the short Story It's a Good Life, by Jerome Bixby)"
44,"Dumas, The Angel of Death. The domain known as the Valley of the Shadow of Death has been the scene of a great battle, followed by the brutal massacre of all the local population. Now it's a misty, shadowy wasteland littered in bones, haunted by the ghosts and shades of dead troops and civilians, whose keening of lament and dreadful spectral visions fill the hearts with despair. Only the foolhardiest enter willingly to the valley, tempted by the forsaken treasures allegedly found there. The lord is a memitim psychpomp (see Pathfinder Bestiary 6), who betrayed the souls he was supposed to deliver to the afterlife and left them behind, and now is cursed to dwell forever among them."
45,"Borash, The Demon Bear was an ancient Celtic-like king given to fits of rage, in the course of which he slaughtered his wife, son and brothers. He was cursed to become a terrible dire bear, and has been roaming his country for centuries by now, feared by all and unable to return to his throne. Many warriors and hunters died attempting to slay him, and he seems to be invincible. (Inspiration: Mor'du from the movies Brave and The Legend of Mor'du)."
46,"The Phantom of the Manor was a rich frontier settler who strongly objected his daughter's wedding to a simple man. An earthquake collapsed his gold mine and killed him before the marriage, but he returned on the wedding day as a phantom, lured the groom to the attic and hanged him. The bride remained alone with in the decaying house, never removing her wedding dress and flowers bouquet, waiting forever for her beloved's return, singing softly while ghosts and spirits revel around her in eternal party. The laughing phantom haunts the manor, summoning more undead spirits to the house and the nearby ruined town. (Source: Disneyland Paris' Phantom Manor's background story. Dread Possibility: the groom somehow became the Phantom Lover, cursed to lure countless women to their doom but never return to his true love)"
47,"Andrew, Lord of the Castle of Horrors. The Castle of Horrors is a huge dark castle the size of a small mountain, with countless rooms, halls, towers, dungeons etc. Virtually any monster, creature, trap or puzzle might be encountered within its walls. Many adventuring parties are drawn to the castle, and might spend weeks inside exploring it without seeing everything (assuming they survive that much). The darklord was a Dungeon Master from earth, who believed Ravenloft to be real, and used to murder his players when their characters died as a sacrifice to the Dark Powers. Now he is a demilich skull in the top of highest tower, waiting for worthy heroes to consume their souls, and fully aware of his strange situation."
48,"Brutus, the Pig. Huge, obese and filthy, this crude and boorish man nicknamed 'the Pig' takes a particular delight in giving offense, violating taboos and defiling anything sacred in the most degrading, repulsing ways imaginable. He works ruthlessly to corrupt and debase his surrounding, scorning any kind of faith, morality and decency. His domain, a stinking, lawless countryside of swamps, farms and criminal dens, is populated by inbred crazy farmers, vicious bandits, cruel slavers and the worst human scum from all over the domains (and beyond). Even the local animals and livestock are twisted and corrupted."
49,"Honoria, The Pallid Lady is a mute zombie lord, brought to unlife by her desperate alchemist husband after many failing experiments. Her domain is known as the Mansion of the Dead, a vast and dilapidated mansion set in the middle of a sprawling, crumbling cemetery, shrouded by green-tinged mists and eternal gloom. The Mansion and the dungeons underneath are home for many walking dead, mutants and necromantic experiments. It is a floating pocket domain which may appear temporarily everywhere, and the Pallid Lady is constantly looking for new consorts and servants, and spreading the undead infection. She fully controls the house and can move the walls and chambers at will. (Inspiration: Bottled Imp Games' The Lords of the Night: Zombies, pgs. 53-56, and Resident Evil game)"
50,"Heartless. Evergloom is a darker version of Everglow (from Ponyfinder RPG), a mystical, colorful domain full with magical races, talking and humanoid animals, satires, fairies etc. The good races must fight for their freedom and lives against the forces of shadow and darkness. The darklord, a dark veiled sorcerer/fiend, is known as Heartless, and his wish is to wipe all emotion, happiness and love from the world. (Inspiration: a combination of No-Heart from Care Bears and Quellor from Teddy Ruxpin, in a more mature version, of course)"
51,"Gebbeleth, The Eye Tyrant. The darklord of this Sword & Sorcery domain (think Steve Jackson's Fighting Fantasy style) is a cruel, genius giant beholder. It rules the ancient, magnificent cities with its nobility of beholder underlings and monstrous minions, though in the wilderness some barbarian tribes still hold to their freedom. The domain has a large share of aberrations, demons and terrifying monsters of all types. It embodies the horror of being oppressed by truly inhuman monsters (See Neil Gaiman's A Study in Emerald for inspiration on such society)."
52,"Khamil, the Shadow King. In the cities and the forests of this perpetually shadowed domain, every shadow is a threat. In addition to the large number of shadow-creatures and shadow-monsters, the Shadow King controls all the natural shadows and may spy throw them and animate them at will. He was once a great emperor, but now he is the power beyond the scenes, pulling the strings of mortal society and conspiring to bring it and the physical world under his absolute control."
53,"Shadrakh, The Black Dragon, rules its coastal city and its business harshly but efficiently, ever increasing its wealth and power. It is stuck in human form, to its great dismay, but can send its draconic soul into other people, haunting and killing its victims inside their minds (they alone see the dragon as if it was real, while others around them only see the victims staring and struggling with thin air, though wounds do appear physically on their bodies). Every victim 'sees' the dragon somewhat differently, its shape reflecting their inner fears. The people of the domain have no idea that this frightening phenomena has something to do with their charismatic ruler."
54,"Ludwig Hecht, The Skeptic. This ex-priest who lost his faith wants magic, miracles and the supernatural to be real, to have a hope for the afterlife; but he is so skeptic that his very presence dispels every magic and nullify any unnatural phenomena, making him angry on his 'foolish, superstitious' denizens. He and his men persecute any religious believers and people claiming to have supernatural powers, punishing them severely if they can't prove their claims under scientific examination (which obviously they can't in Hecht's presence)."
55,"The Gamemaster. All around Ravenloft there are legends about the dreaded gamemaster, about men and women awakening to find themselves in his dungeons, forced to participate in a cruel game of puzzles, choices and traps, putting to test their wits, morality, views and will force. The stoic Gamemaster sees his work as educational, and maybe he is right, for those who survive his games come out changed, scarred in body and mind but with better understanding of themselves. (Inspiration: movies like Saw series, Cube, and Would You Rather)"
56,"Lodin, the Siren (- mermaid), has had her heart broken by a human prince, and now lures sailors with her singing to her little iceberg domain, sinking their ships and killing them."
57,"Ordelia, the Perfectionist. This glorious, golden-haired aasimar at her forties (think Nicole Kidman in The Golden Compass) demands perfect order from everyone, in everything, all the time. Everything must be clean, polished and well-trimmed. She has no tolerance whatsoever for poor manners, bad grooming, offensive language, or anything she defines as immorality - including impiety, irreverence, disrespect for elders, use of alcohol, and sexual promiscuity. Any flaw or breaching of the rules result in punishment and 'correction', which may include turning the offender into a statue, painting or other piece of art. Ordelia's domain and manor are truly beautiful and radiant places, but everyone lives at constant fear from her frequent surveys, trying at vain to match her impossible standards of perfection."
58,"Honeytongue, the Liar Fairy. This mischievous pixie is a masterful liar. She looks like a diminutive beautiful elven girl, 1-foot-tall, with impish smile. Her lies have incited wars, ruined families and lives, and caused endless strife, which only made her laugh. She has the power to make anyone believe anything she says as long as it's a (sensible) lie; when she says the truth, however, no one will believe her. She flies around her domain, spying on people invisibly and looking for the best ways to lie them to their doom. The denizens are all suspicious of each other, and accusations of lies and cheating are common, but still they all fall for Honeytongue's every word."
59,"Sabag, the Ghoul Lord. This is truly a domain of dread, with shadowy cities, forests of gnarled, twisted trees, vast creepy graveyards and frequent thunderstorms. The people live in constant dread from the ghouls, ghasts and other undead who reach everywhere through the tunnels crisscrossing the land, and whose attacks seem to be orchestrated to create maximal terror. The demonic-faced Sabag, a serial killer and artist of the grotesque for whom the whole domain is his playground, can assume the shapes of his former victims, and haunts his victims both in their dreams and in reality; many poor souls have awakened from a nightmare in which their bedmate turned out to be the ghoul lord, only to see it coming true."
60,"Rabbi Mendel, the Kabbalist. An aging Jewish rabbi and master kabbalist from Gothic Earth's Poland of 17th century, Rabbi Mendel came to be despaired at the hopelessly corrupted world. After years of studies and preparations, he tried to perform a ritual to retrieve all creation into nothingness, but found himself instead surrounded by the Mists along with his Jewish shtetl (little town). Convinced he was trapped by the Qlippoth (forces of evil), he delves deeper into the secrets of the kabbalah, searching the mystic formula to end all existence. He almost never comes out of his room, nor letting anyone in, except his golem and other unearthly servants. The Jews in the shtetl try to cope with the hardship of their lives and the occasional dybbuks and bad spirits. Rabbi Mendel is a most powerful kabbalist, who can control reality on basic levels of time and space. With his wild, grey hair and beard and burning eyes, he has an atmosphere of awe around him, and few dare approach his room."
61,"Zelig, the Shrinker. This twisted gnome hated to be the smallest of all, so he devised a ray that shrank all the people in town to 2-inch size, making him a giant in comparison. Now they are trying to survive in the domain composed of his messy house and surrounding garden, searching for resources, fighting mice and insects, and trying not to fall prey for Zelig's experiments and abuses. Visitors to the domain will quickly be shrank as well by the crazed gnome, but perhaps they'll be able to find a cure in his dangerous lab…"
62,"Ozymandias, the King of Kings. Compared to this egomaniac, even the other darklords look meek. The dark-skinned, giant of a man known as Ozymandias feels nothing but contempt toward all other beings, utterly convinced that all must obey him. He ruled a huge African-like empire, forcing his subjects to worship him and construct colossal statues in his image, starting a process of apotheosis. But eventually a rebellion has ruined his kingdom. He found himself in a copy of his capital, where he is all-powerful indeed, but he knew at once that nothing of this was real. The people in his domain are just dream stuff, without real consciousness and feelings. Though he tries to pretend otherwise, he knows there is nobody here to truly acknowledge his superiority… unless some outsiders arrive. A ruined, colossal statue of Ozymandias might be found in the Amber Wastes. Reading the writing on it and touching it draws those who did it to his domain, from which one may escape only by realizing that it is just Ozymandias' dream."
63,"Tash, the Rooster from Hell. Once there was a good hearted farm boy, who wanted to stop the killing and eating of animals by men. He found and performed a druidic ritual intended to give speech ability to all the animals in the area, believing humans won't kill talking animals. The ritual worked, but some of the animals got more than he intended, becoming twisted, demonic and evil. The evilest and most dangerous was a fierce rooster named Tash, who became a giant, human-sized pyrolisk (a variation of cockatrice whose gaze can burn victims to ash). He led the other animals against the humans, killing them all. Now Tash and his lieutenants (Grogar the ram and Taurus the bull) rules tyrannically over the other talking animals in the farm and surrounding lands and woods - some of which wish humans to return and rescue them, or developing strange religions and rituals. (Inspiration: books like The Book of the Dun Cow, Watership Down, The Wind in the Willows etc.)"
64,"The Dreadknight Lord. This vast domain is ruled by the cold, emotionless Dreadknights, an order of heavily armored knights, mercilessly devoted to their unflinching vision of absolute law and order. The Infernal affects all aspects of life in the domain, and all denizens are forced to take part in diabolical rituals, knowing from early age that their souls are bound to hell. Little is known about the leader of the Dreadknights, an awe-inspiring figure in blood-red full plate armor, only that he formerly belonged to the Hellknights in Golarion; some whisper he is no other than Daidian Ruel, the legendary founder of the Hellknights himself, who descended into diabolism in his obsession to rescue his suicide son's soul from hell. Other says he was the leader of the lost Order of the Blood sect (see Parfinder's Path of the Hellknight for details)."
65,"Blind Paul, the Monk. What greater curse can befall a scholar who lied and murdered in order to get possession of a grand, ancient library, than being struck with blindness, forever unable to read the countless books surrounding him? Blind Paul is now the lord of the floating pocket domain known as the Library of the Mists, rumored to contain all kinds of arcane knowledge. He eagerly waits for visitors to capture and force them read for him, hoping to find a cure to his blindness in some book. Though blind, he is very dangerous, and may darken the library at will and use his sharp hearing and smell senses and monk's fighting skills to overcome his foes."
66,"Horacio, The Silent Bard, is a bard and assassin who loves music and singing as much as he enjoys killing, but now he rules a domain engulfed in perpetual magical silence, where no one can hear you sing… or scream. Unable to sing, at least the silence makes his assassinations in the service of the three noble houses so much easier. The population has adapted to life in the silence, communicating through sign language and writings."
67,"Vor-Tola, The Worm that Walks, was a mad sorcerer who believed worms to be the ultimate life form and the destiny of the world. Now his body is made of thousands of worms, and he is the darklord of a post-apocalyptic domain drawn from a reality where the fabled Age of Worms has come to pass. The remnants of humanity struggle to survive in a ruined wasteland crawling with wormspawn - giant worms, avolakia, ulgurstasta, wormdrakes, sons of Kyuss, other worm-like aberrations and the undead. this domain is part of the Weeping Ruins cluster, composed of several post-apocalyptic domains."
68,"Varus, Herald of the Apocalypse. Cold, indifferent and utterly analytical (think Agent Smith or Albert Wesker), Varus leads a society of scientists, necromancers and arcanists devoted to the Xammux - a group of six alien entities representing forbidden knowledge (see Book of Vile Darkness 3.5). In their quest for knowledge and world dominance they opened a gate to another dimension, summoning an eldritch electrical storm that and animated the dead all around the world, resulting in a zombie apocalypse slaying most of humanity. Varus and his followers reside now in their secret bunker while the storm is still raging outside, and the remaining survivors are fighting against the undead hordes and other eldritch horrors. This is one of the domains in the Weeping Ruins post-apocalyptic cluster."
69,"Ricardo, the Zombie Master. Another post-apocalyptic domain from the Weeping Ruins cluster. Survivors from the zombies' holocaust are concentrated in this fortified city under the cruel governor Ricardo, a half-Vistani with an innate ability to control the zombies, who feeds them with anyone who fails to obey his whims. The survivors must bend to his rule, knowing his will is the only thing keeping the undead hordes at bay. Recently however some zombies have started developing sentience and break his control, banding into groups and organizing attacks on the city, causing Ricardo much concern. Other local governors might rule similar city-domains in the wastelands of the Weeping Ruins."
70,"Jess, the Left Hand of God. Corrupted sheriff in a wild-west styled frontier land, Jess can psionically change people's perceptions of reality and even of themselves: make them see, hear and feel things that aren't there, believe they are somebody else, conceive him differently or not at all, etc. He can make a woman believe she's his wife, or make a father see his children as demons. But Jess is delusional himself, frequently having revelations of angels and demons giving him orders or threatening him. He sees himself as an agent of higher powers, 'the Left Hand of God', and uses his powers to twistedly punish those who 'deserve it'. The domain has a large share of madmen, religious fanatics, criminals and self-proclaimed prophets and messiahs, so trying to figure out the truth may cause one lose his mind."
71,"The Pumpkin King, a pumpkin-headed being ruling a big city where humans masked as monsters and monsters masked as humans mingle under the orange moon in an eternal Halloween night, joy and horror overlap, and everything is possible. (Inspiration: the RPG Worlds Numberless and Strange, pgs. 64-71)"
72,"The Animal Lord. Grown among the apes and learned to despise humankind, the white man known as the Animal Lord is now the terror of the jungle tribes, using his skills and control on animals to make sure they know who really rules the jungle. He is cursed to lose his speech ability, becoming mute like the animals he loves."
73,"The Fear Itself. The sewers of Timor might have been relocated to Paridon, but the city remains, and now it has a new darklord: a 5th rank fihyr (see Quoth the Raven 11, 'Report on Fihyrs'), manifested from the collective, continual fears of the Timorians. This abomination uses its vast powers and intelligence to increase further the fear level in the city, thus creating even more of its kind."
74,"The Big Boss is a crime lord who reached the top of the criminals' hierarchy thanks to his genius and psychokinetic powers, and ruled his metropolis with iron fist. Now his city is secluded from the rest of the world, shrouded in perpetual night, and almost all color was drained from it, leaving the domain in hues of black, gray and white, with only some flashes of bright color here and there. This is a noir/Sin City styled domain of existentialistic despair, where countless criminals, antiheroes, gangs, guilds, mafia families and other fractions fight to achieve dominion, money and meaning. The supernatural is also present in the forms of vampires, succubi and other inhuman beings. The Big Boss, a large, bald man with wrinkled face, is still the most powerful and feared man in the city, but he must struggle to keep his position, and he suffers greatly from the lack of lively colors in his world."
75,"Prince John doesn't look the stuff of a darklord. Sure, this thin, straw-haired, freckled young man is far from being a pleasant person; he is sour, rude, pampered, short-tempered and capricious, but not more so than average princes of his teen age. He is never known to have killed or tortured anyone, and is not even overly debauched. What he embodies is just that - evil that comes not out of acting, but rather out of neglect and lack of caring. Prince John doesn't care about anyone or anything; the people in his kingdom often suffer from raids, floods, failures of crops and other problems, but even though John can solve them with his magical power to create matter and objects out of nothing, he just doesn't bother to do so, keeping this power to himself and complaining about how other people are such a nuisance."
76,"Theona Bell, the Monster Huntress. The dreaded baron of this domain seems to be a grotesque nosferatu, brooding in his dark castle and hardly seen in public. The people tale all kinds of horrible things about him. Actually he is just a non-evil man suffering from deforming disease and sensitive to sunlight. So are the other 'monsters' haunting the domain - the 'vampires', 'werebeasts', 'hags' and 'ghosts', though scary-looking, are all pathetic and harmless creatures, or just diseased humans. That doesn't stop the real darklord, the venerated monster huntress Theona Bell, of the glorified Bell dynasty, from hunting and killing them mercilessly; though she knows the truth, her hatred to monsters goes beyond reason. She fancies the baron to be her arch-nemesis, but her planes to destroy him always fail."
77,"The Tall Man. Few understand death better than this silent, thoughtful tomb giant (Pathfinder Bestiary 6) death delver (Heroes of Horror), but now he wants to understand human life as well. The people of his gloomy, sparsely populated domain speak fearfully of 'The Tall Man', whose shadowy cloaked and hooded figure roams the land, looking for victims to abduct or just watching from afar. Those he abducts he takes to his underground caverns, where he subjects them to incomprehensible psychological and physiological experiments, trying to figure out how human mind and emptions work. He doesn't look malicious, only curious, but his tests are often horrible experiences. The Tall Man's height is 4 meters (12 feet), but he has the power to assume semi-corporeal shadowy form and become much, much taller."
78,"Hanako, the Yurei. The people in this small Japanese-style domain rightly fear the night, for their land is haunted by yurei (Japanese ghosts), noppera-bo (faceless, corporeal ghosts often masquerading as humans), kuchisake-onna (slit-mouth women who cut your face if you fail to answer their questions properly), and other horrors from Japanese folklore and movies. The darklord is a powerful yurei of a murdered girl, seeking revenge. (Inspiration: J-horror movies like The Ring, The Grudge, The Eye, Dark Water, Shutter, One Missed Call etc.)"
79,"King of the Underworld. Very little is known about this grim dwarf (if a dwarf he truly is). Presumably he is a Theiwar or Zhakar dwarf from Krynn, who rules an underground kingdom of darkness and strange purple light, and possesses a magical crown with the power to command almost every creature in the underdark. His servants and soldiers are a mishmash of duergars, derro, troglodytes, fomorians, cave giants, kuo-toa and many other underground races and monsters, which sometimes he sends to raid the surface world for his nefarious purposes. He is overly paranoid about his crown, always fearing someone will take it from him."
80,"Papa Santos, the Dealer, is a flamboyant, jovial and heartless dealer and pimp, who keeps the people in his domain at his leash by addicting them to various types of 'stuff' only he can supply. Even the most virtuous men and women can be reduced by him to slavering beasts who will do anything to get their next ration of bliss and ecstasy. His domain is a city full with shining casinos, fun houses and drug dens, bright façade hiding dark alleys and terrible corruption. Papa Santos himself has his own inner demons tormenting him, but no amount of stuff can free him from their grasp."
81,"Leo and Rose, The Ghosts of Love, were in life two passionate lovers whose love became dark, possessive and obsessive, leading to their mutual poisoning of each other. Their domain is a truly beautiful landscape of stunning sunsets, shining stars and intoxicating flowers. The people are a beautiful, deeply emotional folk, sensitive and romantically inclined, easily falling deeply in love with each other or with nymphs, dryads and other fairies and spirits of the forests. But romance and tragedy walk hand in hand here, and those love affairs lead too often to suicide, death or other disasters, thanks to the influence of the jealous darklords."
82,"Lovinia, The Ugly Queen. This girl maimed and disfigured other girls in order to be the most beautiful. The Dark Powers made her stunningly beautiful indeed, but the people in her domain are all ugly and horrid to look at, and they have reversed esthetical standards - they see ugliness as beauty and beauty as ugliness, making her utterly disgusting in their eyes as they are in hers. Visitors to the domain will quickly become ugly like the locals until they leave it."
83,"Chomolungma, Spirit of the Mountain. This princess was so cold and aloof, seeing herself far superior to all other humans. Now her undying, skeletal spirit lives far indeed above anyone else - on the top of the highest mountain in the world (Everest style), swept by fierce winds of ice and snow, where very few adventurers dare to climb. Legends warn everyone from the wrath of the mad spirit, combined with the natural hazards of the ascent, but also tell about some rare treasure hidden at the top - a most powerful relic, or a gate out of Ravenloft."
84,"Taitachak, the Last Winter. Thought that Vorostokov is cold? Apparently you haven't visited this Lovecraftian-arctic domain of black ice, polar bears, wild Eskimo tribes (some of them cannibals), ancient temples buried under the ice, yetis, orcas, winter wolfs and ancient horrors. In the heart of the domain Taitachak is trapped in the ice, an ancient xixecal (see Epic Level Handbook) who brought an ice age to his world and wishes to expand it further. His evil thoughts and dreams affects the domain and its denizens."
85,"Archbishop Lacosta, the Hypocrite. Lacosta is a lecherous, disgusting spidery old man. He holds the reigns of both religious and political power, preaching publically about piety and virtue while hardly trying to conceal his lustful and greedy behavior. By doing so he makes people lose their faith in the church, gods and human virtue, pushing them to corruption as well. His ability to cast priestly spells and create miracles for his benefit only helps to convince the populace that the gods themselves must be hypocrites as he is. Shortly put, he embodies the worse of organized religion, using faith and the gods as a thin plaster to further his basic urges. He suffers from ugly skin disease no prayer can cure, though."
86,"The Minotaur. Many years ago, people of this city used to sacrifice young men and women to the terrible minotaur who dwelled in the labyrinth beneath them. The minotaur was slain, but his spirit lives on, looking for a proper vessel. When someone in the city gives in to strong anger or acts violently, sometimes the darklord might possess him, transforming him into a monstrous, demonic-looking minotaur with half-skeletal head. Sound of alarm horns will be heard then in the city, and the labyrinth itself will manifest all over it, superimposing itself on the houses and streets. Then the minotaur will go on a hunting spree."
87,"Shimdon, the Imp. Every man, woman and child in this domain have an imp as familiar. The imp appears near birth, telepathically bonding with his patron and becoming his or her closest friend, assistant and advisor. The imps assume any small shape desirable by their patrons (cherubs, fairies, small animals etc.), give them information and perform errands and little magic for them. Thanks to the imps' help and advices, the domain have advanced significantly… but so have corruption. The imps coordinately manipulate the individuals and society into depravity, slowly but surely. The darklord Shimdon is the ruler of all the imps and the personal imp of the governor, pulling deviously all the strings from his position."
88,"Anabubali, Mother of Dinosaurs. A powerful witch-doctor, Anabubali created dinosaurs on her prehistoric homeworld by using foul magic to defile reptilian eggs, making herself an army of monsters. She ruled her world tyrannically until a meteor strike directed by her rivals destroyed her kingdom and creations. Her domain is known now as the Isle of Monsters, full with dinosaurs, giant insects and other monstrous abominations. Anabubali is a blackened lich, covering her skeletal frame with black robes and heavy ritualistic mask and headdress, her voice a chilling raspy whisper. She rules a city of tailed humanoids, worshipped as bloodthirsty goddess and rarely leaves her temple. Though cunning and powerful, she has a primitive mindset, superstitious and pagan. Visitors from more advanced lands make her jealous and suspicious, envying the sophistication beyond her reach."
89,"Kiran Darkstorm, the Storm Bringer. Kiran was born on a particularly stormy night and abandoned as a baby from unknown reasons. He was found and raised by an order of mystic monks, and his soul was stormy as well, always in turmoil, trying to figure his place in the world. He found he can actually call down winds and lightning when in emotional state, sometimes unintentionally. Kiran became a wandering hero, but tragedy seemed to follow him; unknowingly he killed his father and married his sister, becoming the Lord of the exotically beautiful Dusk Islands. Upon discovering the truth, he killed her and their children in a burst of emotions manifesting as lightning bolts - followed by a raging hurricane that laid waste to the city. Kiran is a strikingly handsome man, with athletic body, shoulder length blond-white hair and grey eyes; many women seek his company, but his tortured soul and turbulent passions make him a very dangerous man to get emotional with."
90,"The Mimic. This super-dangerous domain looks like an abandoned town, but actually is full with mimics of all sizes and shapes, including house hunters (giant mimics disguised as whole buildings), and animators of every rank. Every object or structure might turn out to be a deadly killer. The darklord is a mimic who tried to ascend into human shape and failed, becoming a huge shifting mass of tendrils and melting human visages (see Pathfinder's Dungeons Denizens Revisited)."
91,"The Storyteller. The Black Forest in this domain is the home of the dark and twisted Grimm's fairy tales (and others), where one may encounter a vampire Little-Red-Riding-hood, seven evil dwarves, undead Rapunzel, children-eating witch in a house of candy, petty kings and queens, giants and so on. The denizens all know and respect the Storyteller, a kind old hermit who lives with his talking dog and seems to know the stories of all the denizens of the domain. Little they suspect that he is the one who brought all those horrors to life with his stories, and whatever he tells becomes true. (Inspiration: Grimm RPG and The Storyteller TV show)"
92,"Sir Hugo, The One-Woman Man. This black-hearted, bass-voiced nobleman led a life of debauchery, until a meeting with a beautiful vampiress changed him into a vorlog. Now he is constantly looking for a surrogate to his dead vampire lover. Unfortunately for him, all the denizens in his domain are perfect doubles of this maiden; even newcomers (regardless of their sex, age and race) are transformed overnight to look exactly like her. The sight of his lover's face everywhere drives the vorlog mad, and he tries hopelessly to find out which one is his 'real' lover. He replaces his surrogates often, convinced every time that this time it's the real one, but eventually gets frustrated and murders them viciously."
93,"The Illusionist. One can never know what is real and what is not in this domain. Any person, animal, object or structure might be an illusion, temporal or permanent, harmless or dangerous, and not exist at all or be different from how it seems. It is all the handiwork of the mysterious Illusionist, but very little is known about this enigmatic figure: is it a man? A woman? Is it human at all? What are his goals? How can the truth be found under so many layers of illusions?"
94,"Dom, the Jailor. The muscular body of this bald, hulking half-ogre is all covered in scars and tattoos over his grey skin. Born and raised in one of the worst prisons imaginable, Dom has never set foot in the outside world for single a day in his life. Thanks to his exceptional strength and cunning, he became the head of the prisoners, eventually leading them in a bloody riot against the jailors. But when he finished exacting his terrible revenge and was about to finally step out of the prison, he found the Mists surrounding it. Now the prison is his domain. He is both curious about the outside world and tortured by dreams about it. The Mists keep bringing him new prisoners, some are vile criminals and others truly innocent. Dom doesn't care; he does his best to make their imprisonment a living hell, with the help of his sadistic underlings. If he can't be free, nobody will."
95,"Nikolai the Terrible, the Tsar. With his mane of gray hair, long drooping moustache and feral looks, Tsar Nikolai Ivanovich is an impressive and frightening figure to behold. He rules over a large Russian-styled domain, where humans and fairy folk from Slavic lore once lived together in happiness. But when Nikolai came to power, not only he became a cruel tyrant for mankind, he started persecuting and destroying all the magical and mystical creatures as well. As a result, his kingdom became a cold and dark land, devoid of joy. Many magical beings are still hiding in the woods, and Nikolai's campaign against them is going on. He is not above recruiting the darkest of those beings to his side as an assistance against their brethren. Nobody knows for sure what motivates his hatred, but it seems it has something to do with an early age encounter he had with Baba Yaga. Some speculate he is some unnatural being himself."
96,"Maia, the Amazon, is a beautiful red haired warrior woman who hates men with all her heart, the result of all she suffered from their hands. Her domain is a women-only island, and women from all over the domains are drawn to it, where they are trained to be powerful warriors, able to defend and avenge themselves. They are also indoctrinated to see all men as inherently evil and despise them. Every man setting foot on the island is killed, tortured or transformed by Maia's power into predatory animal under her control (reflecting how she sees them). But for all her efforts to make her domain a safe haven for women, Maia is cursed to see it falling time after time before men invaders - pirates, bandits, troops, agents of other darklords etc. - who always manage to defeat the amazons in spite of all their training, and kill or enslave them. In the wake of each such invasion Maia is left alone, determined to make her disciples stronger next time - and her hatred burns even hotter."
97,"Doriath the Dark is a stunningly handsome half elf, with midnight black hair, golden hypnotic eyes, and white skin covered with many runes and strange symbols. Doriath always believed a great destiny awaits him, and was willing to go to any length to find it. During the hundreds years of his life, he has studied and worshipped countless evil gods and deities, archdevils and demon lords, reaching quickly to the highest ranks and then moving on when he wasn't satisfied by the results. He learned the darkest secrets, performed the darkest rituals, and achieved countless boons and banes. He seems to be able to look into the darkest pits of the abyss or hell without losing his calm. Now he leads a huge university devoted to the practical studies of everything dark, and the population around supplies everything the students need. Doriath is convinced now that the Dark Powers hold the key to his destiny, but no matter how much he learns and tries, it still seems to be beyond his reach."
98,"Sebastian, the False God. Those islands look like a tropic paradise populated by happy, friendly tribes - until one finds out that the greatest desire of the local people is to be eaten by the White Gods, who live in the Jungle! They strive to keep their bodies in perfect health and shape, to be tastiest as possible for the gods. The 'gods' are actually Sebastian and his friends - normal sailors who came to the newly discovered islands, pretended to be gods, made a show of power and convinced the awestruck locals to care for all their needs while they live debauchedly in the luxurious villa they built. But when the Mists came, the 'gods' found that they have indeed became godlike - invulnerable, powerful and beautiful - but now they must eat human flesh to survive. The locals became all too eager to donate their own flesh, but it pushed Sebastian and his fellows to the edge of madness. Some of them believe now they are actually gods."
99,"Yorak, the Barbarian. Several savage barbarian tribes are constantly fighting and raiding each other in this chaotic evil domain, each trying to exceed the others in atrocities and cruelty. The domain embodies the horror of pre-civilization society without any semblance of morality or order, where compassion is seen as weakness and brutality is equated with strength. Yorak is the leader of the strongest tribe. He relishes destruction and death, eating the hearts of his foes and making drinking cups from their skulls. Every day he passes without a killing he loses some of his mental attributes and becoming stronger in physical attributes, gradually transforming into an ogre-like monstrosity (like the curse of the Sword of Arak from Realm of Terror). Sometimes he does so intentionally before great battles."
100,"Sheila, the Wight Queen. The queen of this truly dreadful domain and her court are true were-wights, capable to shapeshift at will from living humans to hideous wights, gaining the advantages of both mortals and the undead (some are were-ghouls, were-vampires, etc.). Many people in the domain are infected were-wights, living most of the time as regular humans but transforming into evil dead when triggered (their undead aspect has all their memories and intelligence, and might resume illusory mortal shape for short time, adding confusion. Think Evil Dead). Queen Sheila is a decadent hedonist, making the most of both of her shapes and savoring the shock and horror of her victims while she devours their souls (take some inspiration from Pathfinder's Urgathoa, Inner Sea Gods). In this domain, normalcy is an illusion which might be ripped at any moment, revealing a horrific undead reality."

d100,Entry

1,"A bearded and rag-draped man scrabbles in the sand. He’s looking for something he lost there. His mind, he says. It would be very bad for the world if he ever found it."
2,"Some inhuman sailors and their half-living vessel, washed into this world by aberrant winds. Will barter for supplies with esoteric navigational instruments and the locations of magical anomalies they’ve found here while searching for their route home."
3,"A furrow has been dragged into the sand, leading down the mouth of a cave eroded into a low cliff. The furrow’s sides are stained with blood."
4,"A derelict ship picked clean by scavengers human and otherwise. Might still be good for firewood, or shelter lurking vermin."
5,"Two tiny armies form ranks in the sand and march into battle: one of red crabs climbing from the sea, another of white crabs from the dunegrass up inland. Even a few crabs are no threat to a human, but enough of them might be. If you ignore them they’ll go about their violent business and eventually one side will emerge victorious. If you aid one side against the other, the victors will reward you with cached spoils. Mostly tide-washed junk, but a handful of lost treasures as well. If you attack both sides they’ll band together to fight you."
6,"Mud slurries obscenely here. A water elemental and an earth elemental in a forbidden tryst. They’ll offer a modest bribe to get you to forget what you’ve seen, but plot sudden, stalking violence if you try to haggle or refuse. Don’t trust sand or saltwater after you’ve provoked them."
7,"A black-clad widow kneels in the surf and weeps for the love she lost at sea. She’ll pay dearly for word that they may yet live, or a smaller but still respectable amount for gossip and alcohol."
8,A gang of urchins pick at the driftwood for anything that could be sold. They’ll work for a pittance and rob you blind in a blink if the opportunity arrives.
9,"Some patches of sand here are sunken and pitted with bubbles. Giant, carnivorous clams lurk beneath these. Watch your step, or you might lose a foot to their clamping shells."
10,"A whale, wide-eyed with terror, beaches itself before you. It won’t be long now til it dies. The whale’s pursuer waits in the shallows offshore, waves beating at its fins and spines. If the whale is not returned to the water, it will drag its glistening bulk ashore to retrieve it."
11,A mass of imperishable plastic waste from a gone and forgotten civilization. Maybe worth something to a collector of curiousities or an alchemist.
12,"A patch of reeds. The sand around it seems recently disturbed. Underneath, a squad of blue-skinned goblins waits for a chance ambush. Their rattling breaths can be heard from the reeds just over the sound of the breeze."
13,"A galley and its crew, resting ashore. They’re looking for slaves to replace the ones who died at sea. They’ll pay for prisoners, as well as tips about vulnerable populations, but may try to capture you if you give an impression of weakness. If released the slaves on the galley will split evenly between those who flee and those who try to kill the crew."
14,"A marooned man with salt-cracked lips, escaped from exile on a ramshackle raft. He’s near death and deserved worse than marooning for what he did, but he also knows secrets you’ll want."
15,"An explorer from a distant land. She’s curious about the region and will report anything you tell her as truth back to her emperor, and in some months time when the full expeditionary fleet arrives they’ll act off that information."
16,"The severed tentacle of a sea monster, still grasping on the dying reactions of its ganglionic brain. It will flop after the closest thing generating vibrations (besides the waves), such as by stepping on the sand, and try to crush it. Hard to take on in a straight fight, easy to trick."
17,"Someone’s made an elaborate mandala in the sand. If you can step within it without disturbing its lines, you’ll be blessed with peace of mind and rapid healing while they stay there. The mandala will be wiped away when the tide comes in."
18,"Off in the distance you can see an approaching black cloud, a buzzing noise rising as it nears. A swarm of sandflies in ravenous frenzy. Too many to fight. Flee, find shelter, or suffer a death of a million little bites."
19,A flock of sirens competing in a singing contest. Passers-by will be pressed into judging the winner. Losers will be furious.
20,"You spot something shiny ahead: the handle of a sword jutting up from the sand. There’s not much left beneath that hasn’t rusted to powder. Inscribed on the blade is part of a poem in a language only scholars still speak, florid in its dedication of the sword to a young prince by their father, the king. The sword’s enchantment is as broken as its blade. Where once its cut carried golden light that ate away at wounds, it now inflicts a contagious, blistering radiance."
21,"Assorted fish, bloated with eggs, pulled onto land by the parasites which have now grown larger than the fish’s mouths which once held them. The parasites are here to nest, and will protect their broods with maternal ferocity."
22,"Some grumpy merfolk lounge a ways offshore. When they spot you they’ll throw insults and rocks, but will disperse if the situation is escalated beyond that or if you can dish out a better insult than theirs’."
23,"Several serrated teeth scattered near a bleached, broken jaw. If thrown on the ground these teeth will sprout into fully-grown humanoid remora warriors loyal to whoever threw the teeth. They’ll quickly suffocate on land."
24,"A woman overturns rocks in a panic. In the distance angry shouts can be heard. She’s a selkie fleeing a wealthy merchant husband who forbid her from returning to the ocean, unable to find her skin. The husband has roused a mob to drag her back to their house and children. Not much time’s left before the mob arrives."
25,"The sand here is a riot of many hues, stained by wild magic. Magic cast while standing on this sand works chaotically. Sleeping on it brings prophetic nightmares. Eating it is mutagenic. All of these properties are preserved even if the sand’s removed from the beach."
26,"A boot sunk in to its ankle. It’s within a wide patch of hard-to-distinguish quicksand blocking the path. The boot is of high quality, but otherwise unremarkable."
27,"A lighthouse, the light of which is an uncanny green. Its keeper is more than a little mad, and spends all day gathering fireflies and their grubs. At dusk the keeper places his daily catch in a fine-mesh cage at the lighthouse’s top. Each night the fireflies feed on each other, becoming larger, brighter, and crueler. This will not end happily."
28,"A Mexican stand-off between three pirates, a recently-unburied chest full of booty in the middle of them."
29,"A worn-away wisp of a dryad, clinging to the driftwood which was once her tree. Will try to commit suicide-by-adventurer by convincing them she’s more dangerous than she is to end her agony. If her bluff is called and she’s shuffled gently off this mortal coil, the dryad’s driftwood splits open to reveal a magic seed."
30,"A smuggler in a heavy cloak and a rowboat that seems too rotten to float. Direct light will reveal the smuggler’s true, skeletal face. She discovered a treacherous route out of the underworld then decided to continue the profession she followed in life. The dead smuggler offers goods not found among the living, and attempts to rope you into her schemes."
31,"The sand in this section of beach is greyish-red, iron-like, magnetically anomalous. Carrying ferrous metal through it can kick up obscuring clouds and rasping sandstorms."
32,"A man in a suit of armour sitting on a stone. Not really a man at all, but a knight-crab (like a hermit crab, but bigger, more dangerous, and uses armour instead of shells to house its vulnerable parts) grown a bit too large for its current home and looking to upgrade. Will mimic human behaviour as well as a clever animal can to lure prey closer before it attacks."
33,An idol of verdigrised bronze half-buried in the sand. Time and water have worn away its features to the point that you can’t tell whether it was supposed to look angelic or demonic.
34,"Goblins racing wheels and wagons down the slope of the waterline. They won’t let you pass unless you beat them at their own race. Materials for a vehicle will be provided, including: old planks, nails, an inflated pig skin, and very hard melons. Sabotage of other racers is not only allowed, it’s encouraged."
35,"A sea-hag crouches in the water, combing tangles from her hair. She’s self-serving, always hungry, and morbidly humourous, but willing to barter fresh flesh and magical objects for her services and charms. The hag will die if her hair ever dries out."
36,"A worn leather case containing a smeared and mildewed scroll bobs in the waves. The scroll contains a random spell, but the damage to the scroll will mess with its activation. Maybe it’ll fizzle out, or affect a different target, or even become more powerful."
37,"A rusted machine. Its gears turn so slowly that the movement is nearly imperceptible, its ticking seeming perhaps to be your imagination. It will finally wind down in a matter of hours, and when it does it will explode. With tools (or fingers you don’t mind getting pinched off) the gears can be manually re- or unwound. Immersing the machine in water will delay its detonation indefinitely."
38,"A shark-man brute leaps from the water, positioning itself so that dazzling, blinding light shines off the surface at its back and into your face. Tries to intimidate its way to a toll of wealth and rations, fights reluctantly."
39,"An unhinged wizard rants and raves against the ocean. He seeks allies against it, and will attack anyone who seems to be in league with it (e.g. by sailing upon it, eating its fish, etc.)."
40,"Hungry beachworms tunnelling below, bulging the sand above their passage. They can’t dig through solid rock, but are fast enough to overtake a running person. The sand above softens any blows against them except for when they lunge or watch periscope-like for prey."
41,"Galumphing kelp-freits wielding enormous shell-and-bone scissors. They work to separate the abominable in-betweens of land and sea: amphibians, sailors, seagulls, and so on, with the edge of their scissors if necessary (it’s most often necessary). The kelp-freits try to set up flanks between themselves, so they can combine their scissors to gruesome amputative effect."
42,"A drunken giant building an equally giant sandcastle. It’s dangerously oblivious in its scooping and molding, and if pestered will demand you act out its imaginings of what life in a castle is like with the frightened prisoners the giant’s already captured."
43,"A big, stoic sandstone face carved into the side of a hill. It will open its mouth to the treasure stashed within only for the person it was carved to resemble. The enchantment on it is rather crude, so a mask painted to look like it, its reflection in a mirror, and the like would all be sufficient to fool the face into opening. Dynamite will also open the face, but risks damaging the treasure within."
44,"A discarded coffer full of cursed silver coins. If carried they’ll tarnish any other precious metals you touch, and will return to your possession the night after you spend them. They’ll appear in your mouth if you’ve got no bags or pockets for them."
45,A group of young nobles play polo as their bodyguards watch on. They’re growing bored with their game and eager for new amusements. They nobles unfamiliar with the possibility of their actions having negative consequences. Together their horses and jewelry are worth a small fortune to a discreet buyer who wouldn’t sell you out to the nobles’ parents.
46,"A decrepit yacht drifting down the shore. Its undead passengers believe themselves to still be alive and at an upscale party, dancing and drinking from dusty glasses. They’ll get violent if anything disturbs this illusion, and start off assuming any unfamiliar faces are servants. Some durable valuables are still onboard."
47,"A storm tears through the area, coming and going in maelstromous moments. Soon after the storm passes, a party of fairies riding albatrosses swoop down and ask which direction their quarry went. If told honestly you’ll wake up some days later with a bottle of lightning by your head. If they’re lied to you’ll find yourself caught in a deluge every time you try to sleep outside for the next month."
48,"A spattering of holes and the goblins digging them. They’ve got a waterlogged treasure map, the ink too smudged to read clearly, and are digging all over the approximate area of where “X” marked the spot."
49,"A collection of jars, some shattered, some whole, all caught in some muck. Within them is some goo. Drinking the goo inflicts a piscine mutation: gills, bulging eyes, legs fused into fins, skin turned to scales, and so on. Each jar’s goo inflicts a single mutation."
50,An estuary where crocodiles lurk.
51,"A basket bobbing in the sea foam. Within is a wailing baby, several items of golden jewelry, and a note. The note explains that the baby is the youngest son of a king, sent downriver to escape the murderous attention of the crown prince. It further implores its reader to raise the baby well, take the jewelry as payment (though leaving one piece as a keepsake), and some day tell them of their royal heritage and duty to overthrow their tyrannous sibling."
52,An impromptu bazaar halfway in the water. Merchants from land and sea have gathered here to trade goods only found in their respective environs.
53,A holy oil spill shimmering on top of the water. It’ll still be potent if bottled. In the center of the spill a ghoul shivers atop a raft and cries for help.
54,"A crate of wax-sealed amphora full of wine that’s soured to vinegar. One of the amphora, painted with sharks instead of dolphins, is packed with cocaine or something similar."
55,"The way down the beach here is craggy, with rough waters slamming rougher rocks hemming in one side and a sheer cliff the other. The crags ahead are home to giant barnacles, glued in place but able to lash out at intruders with their tremendous penises."
56,Some fishermen gambling around a barbecue pit.
57,"The sand here is full of sharp shards of rock and glass, cutting feet like caltrops if walked on. Goblins on stilts with bows and pikes are patrolling the area."
58,"Coral mounds dot this place and strange fish swim through the air. This is the ghost of an ancient reef now on land by the long movement of geology, lost in the memory of life. The ghostly animals behave as they would while alive, including attacking when hungry or provoked."
59,"Someone’s drowning, caught in a riptide. If rescued they’ll be grateful, but don’t have much to offer besides their service."
60,A friendly horse trots up the beach to you. It’s a kelpie in disguise. If touched you’ll stick to it and it’ll gallop into the water.
61,A floating dock that trails out to a prime fishing spot.
62,"A fresh shipwreck. There’s a three-way argument between some human scavengers, goblins, and fish-men as to how to split the spoils. They haven’t come to blows yet, but they’re close."
63,"A desiccated ocean chimera (eel for a tail, heads from a turtle, a pufferfish, and a seahorse, body like all four mashed together, breathes gouts of inky venom) placed above the high tide line. Contact with water will restore it instantly to lively hostility."
64,A dire cormorant snacking on a splatter of dead fish washed ashore by a swell. Protective of its food but otherwise placid. Tameable.
65,"A party of adventurers like yourself, all naked and quite deranged from sun exposure and drinking seawater. If kept calm will tell confusing fragments of how they arrived at their current state."
66,"Colourful, frilly seaslug-men crowd around you and probe with soft appendages, babbling all the while. They’re tourists from the undersea realms. Curious about you, but unable to speak your language, and assume their gesticulations are more comprehensible than they are. At the first sign of violence they’ll vomit their guts out and crawl over each other to get back in the ocean."
67,"A sea stack engraved with abstract images. On moonless nights a coven of witches convenes to dance atop it with an octopoid demon, the master they’re sworn to."
68,A salt evaporation pond. People from a nearby village sing work songs as they dredge the salt.
69,"An abandoned, algae-encrusted net. Entangled in it is a fish-bitten revenant on a quest to avenge its own murder, stymied by the fact that its hands and tongue have been eaten off."
70,"Gems ground to dust have been mixed into the sand here, glittering in ruby and sapphire hues. It’d be valuable but time consuming to sift it out here, but this risks attracting the attention of wandering monsters. The mixed sand could be packed up to be sifted elsewhere, but the ratio of sand-to-gem-dust could make it prohibitively heavy."
71,"A lifelike, gently smiling statue carved from salt, up to its knees in the sand. Those within the statue’s field of view (if its eyes could see) receive a penalty to their ability to resist outside influences on their mind."
72,A fishing ogre with waves lapping at its shins. The ogre is currently distracted wrestling with a shark that’s bitten its line.
73,A lightly sleeping lion-naga basking on the sun-warmed sand.
74,"Something golden glints in shallow water. It’s treasure, being used as a lure by fish-men. They’ll attack if you blunder into their environment."
75,"A lone mermaid, swimming down the beach from the opposite direction as you. Gives a wave, then goes on her way."
76,"The sea foam’s piled ashore here over your head, and widely enough that you can’t easily walk around it. Easy enough to push through it, but you can’t see in it past your nose. Something’s hiding in the foam, waiting for prey to wander in."
77,"A shrine to a maritime deity, shells and ribbons laid at its idol’s feet. A tired, old, snappy priestess and her bored apprentice live in a shack nearby and maintain the shrine."
78,Goblins training gulls to shit in peoples’ eyes.
79,"A red tide laps at the shore. It’s infested with vampiric, symbiotic algae. A gaggle of infested people (evident by their crimson eyes and veins) are bathing in the stuff. They try to ply you with drugs and good company to offer up some blood (any sort will do), and become increasingly agitated if you do not. Their preferred mode of attack is to spike the dose of whatever they can get you to take with a sedative and drain you while you’re passed out."
80,A sea turtle nesting site. You’ve arrived at just the right time to see the mass hatching. Predators will be gathering soon to pick off the baby turtles before they reach the water. Maybe you’ll be joining them.
81,A sudden fog rolls in. Vague lights can be seen through it. Lanterns? Will-o’-wisps? Lures? Perhaps it’s better to avoid them than investigate.
82,"A burial at sea. Mourners place treasures on the boat of their chief, then set it ablaze. It’ll sink some distance out. Polite observers will be invited to join the festivities to follow."
83,"An execution. The offender is being buried up to their head below the high tide line. Someone in the gathered crowd is being held back, screaming that the one being buried has been falsely charged. By law they’ve got until the tide comes in to prove it."
84,A retreat of mystics contemplating the mysteries of the ocean.
85,The tower of a heretical astrologer attempting to capture the moon and stars in their reflection off the water.
86,"A floating hull overcome with lead-grey fungus, its crew dead by a saprophytic plague they picked up on distant shores. Some immature sprouting stalks already release thin streams of spores. If not burned or otherwise disposed of the hulk might fully fruit and infest the whole region."
87,"The sand here is spongy, grey, mercury-infused. The fumes rising off it can induce delusions. Some goblins who think themselves human are already here huffing the stuff."
88,"A tide pool with a sheepishly dying merman stuck in it. Needs some convincing that surviving is worth the embarrassment of his situation, but will vouch for you to other his underwater allies if rescued."
89,"A nuckalavee charges from the surf. A tireless pursuer, but can’t cross freshwater."
90,"A resplendent coconut palm held sacred by local people. They know, but don’t speak openly of, a ritual by which you can remove an evil presence from someone’s mind (possession, madness, domination, enchantment, etc.) by trepanning them, drilling to the core of a coconut from the sacred palm, and placing the holes together to draw the evil presence from their head and into the coconut. Trees grown from coconuts used in the ritual are twisted things, bearing the mark of the evil they contained."
91,"A group clad in immaculate white robes, browbeating some reluctant few members into following them willingly into the ocean. Apparently a suicide cult. Non-members are proselytized to, and asked not to interfere."
92,A dwindling iceberg-fortress run aground too far south by unfavourable currents. Its garrison of snow elves are paranoid towards outsiders but desperate for direction to a colder place. It’s a toss-up as to which sentiment will win out.
93,A self-crewed golem-ship in need of a captain. Willing to kidnap someone to serve the role.
94,"The secret dockyards of a nearby nation, where they’re developing experimental ships. Its guards will be aware of your perimeter breach (though not your exact position) and on high alert."
95,"A fisher-monk stands posed upon a rock in impossible stillness, wielding a barbed harpoon. He waits for the vanishingly rare rainbow-urchin to pass by, a creature with spines of light of every hue and shade. When he spots it he’ll strike with unerring precision. If interrupted before then the monk will be incomprehensibly salty."
96,"Sargasso spreads before you, from the beach to the distant horizon. Everything you’ve ever lost beckons from its green tangles. This is a portal to the Sargassium, a world where all things can be found again, or where you too might be lost forever."
97,"The water withdraws, the horizon swells. A tidal wave is coming."
98,"A fish-man flags you down, says they were supposed to meet with a representative from a nearby village to discuss trade agreements, tribute, and breeding rights. As that representative is late, the fish-man explains, you will have to do. Some time in to the negotiation (or fighting, or whatever else) the representative will arrive and react to you based on how you’ve argued for the village’s interests."
99,You glimpse a howling whirlpool and waltzing waterspouts a long way from the shore. The visible surface signs of the weapons of an underwater war.
100,"While walking along on the sand, you suddenly look down and see a turtle crawling toward you. You reach down and flip it over onto its back. The turtle lies there, its belly baking in the hot sun, beating its flippers, trying to turn itself over, but it cannot do so without your help. You are not helping. Why?"

d100,Entry

1,"You fellas make sure to bring ink and parchment, you hear! I remember back, oh, 35 summers ago we found a crypt too big to tackle at the time so we decided to make a map. Only old Bark toes, well we called him Bark toes on account of being a druid his real name was Faelwyn (Sounds elvish but he was a Dwarf, damnedest thing really)... but anyway, old Bark toes had buried all our paper! Said it was only proper respect for Father Tree. So we had to hunt down a rabbit, tan the hide, then burn the map into it. Took 3 days, and that map reeked up my pack something fierce!"
2,Hah! That reminds me of a particularly harsh winter when a dwarf I traveled with thought it’d be fun to explore a cave despite us being low on rations. Needless to say by the time spring rolled around I was plus a few Bullywug bites and minus a short bearded friend!
3,I wouldn’t eat that if I was you. I was once treated to the spectacle of what I thought was a Tabaxi coughing up a hairball. Turns out a Remorhaze egg had been incubating in her gut from some dodgy stew and she quickly became its first meal.
4,You think this is bad weather? I’ve seen it rain so hard that you’d swear it was coming from the ground and the sky at the same time. My boots filled so fast I had to walk barefoot to the nearest shelter I could find. Nearly stepped on a gas spore.
5,"Well, let me tell you: you can take the mightiest knight or wizard in the kingdom, and they'll duel a demigod or storm the gates o'hell. But you throw enough angry chickens at'em, sooner or later they'll go DOWN. Buy me a top-shelf whiskey and I'll tell you how it happened to the high priest. It might come in handy later on."
6,"That's a good story, but I bet you never saw a goliath hurl a gnome into the maw of an angry froghemoth, the hard part wasn't getting the gnome out of the creature, she did that much herself. The hard part was getting the stink o' frog guts off of the gnome."
7,"Things are different these days, they are indeed. I was a Red Arrow, didja know that? Travelled all over these lands, usually in small bands but sometimes they were hundreds of us. Thousands! Everywhere we went we'd work to make people proud of their own accomplishments. Make 'em happy, even if they said our arrows were orange! And if they stole from others, or said unkind things, why we stabbed them with our cold blue spears to let the people know how to behave like proper folk!"
8,"This? Just a bit o' mead from home. Like wine, but made of honey; there's a bit of rose in this one, I think. Want a taste? (If offer is accepted, the mead is described as being pleasantly sweet and smooth, if a bit dry. May cause heartburn for those with hearts.) Good stuff, innit? My uncle's favorite; it's basically all he'd drink. We'd usually get that mead with the juniper berries mixed in, but my uncle preferred the rose mead. Said it tasted better. Dunno if I entirely agree, but that's what he would bring over. Heh...I remember one year, he came by, strangely empty-handed. My mum (his sister) asked where the mead was. That's the thing, he said, they said they was out. Some damn fool had made off with the barrels, leaving none for the rest of us. He suffered through the juniper mead, but he sure as hell wasn't happy about it. But then comes next week, right? He comes by with two kegs of the stuff. THEY FOUND IT, he said. He said he'd been walking along when he heard a commotion off the path, went to go check it out. And, sitting on top of a cart, drunk as hell, were the thieves. They hadn't even properly made off with the stuff, they were just sitting there barely off the road. Damn fools. My uncle seemed proud of himself. Man loved his mead. Maybe a little too much..."
9,"Hah! That's nothing! You want to know what 'up shit creek without a paddle' really looks like? Lemme tell you a story: Me and four of me mates (or so I thought) were going through the mountains with a big load from... I won't tell, because I might actually get back to that pile o' gold one day. But! We were going through this wicked cave, and suddenly drow, the dark bastards, jump out of the shadows and start shouting at us in broken common. Now, we're alone in the mountains, one weeks travel from any civilization, and ambushed by a crew of drow. That's the shit creek, now where's me paddle gone? Well as if the situation wasn't bad enough, there's a cave in that separates me from me mates (got Spencer's leg too), and now I'm alone against a dozen pissed off drow. Now, how I got out of that situation with only a dirk and a shovel to my name, is a story that there isn't a cup of mead big enough to buy from me."
10,"So there I was, tied up. Not 20 feet from this sorceress and her gaggle of cultists. As the I was cutting my way through my bonds, and trying to signal to my mates that we need to stop this. The cultists were Chanting, the clouds were getting darker and the villager in the middle of the throng was getting really nervous. But all I could think about was that damn sorceress. Anyway, that's how I met my first ex-wife."
11,"That ain't nothin' to be scared of. You ever been chased by an undead thunder lizard, vomiting zombies? I tell yah, that'll change the color of your pants and maybe even your religion!"
12,"So you should have seen it: Me, the most beautiful woman you ever saw and a table that turned out to be a mimic. Her palms were stuck to the surface for reasons I as gentleman shall not get into, and I was swinging my sword with one hand and hitching up my trousers with another. Anyway that was the last time I snuck into the Wizard's college storage cellar to fool around."
13,"No crud, there I was at the Battle of Deepwater Isle, standing in front of the walls to Waterdeep. A hundred Sahaugin were storming up the bank, angry as a cat in a pond. We held them back, dropping them 3 to 1. Problem is, that wasn't fast enough and they just kept coming. Well, the Blackstaffs showed up on the wall behind us. Yah ever see what a Fireball does to aquatic flesh? It scared 'em, scared 'em right good but I tell yah, you never smell something so bad as burning water goblin! Except maybe troglodyte..."
14,"That's some nice shootin' there. Did I ever tell you about the time I one-shotted an orc with my sling? See, we was jumped on the Trade Way, just a simple escort job. This little warband of orcs jumped us on the road, lookin' for an easy take. Didn't expect we all had steel, yah see? We cut 'em down quick, but one slipped away, with a sack of valuables under his arm. That greenskin nicked an ox, no lie, tryin' to ride it for all its worth. He was bouncing all around and not gettin' too far. I picked up a rock off the ground, loaded my sling, one shot in the back of his head and he went tumblin'; dead before he hit the ground."
15,That's a fine bit o' gold there. Reminds me of the time I was prospecting for gold up north of Neverwinter. Mount Hotenow was still having its rumblings and we were pickin' pieces that size out of the rivers!
16,"Oh don't complain about this little drizzle. Did I ever tell you about the time I was sailing back from Chult? Musta been only a couple years ago. We had 3 ships, full of old relics, when a bad squall kicked up. Swells were 30 to 40 feet and rain was crushing down on us in sheets. We barely stayed afloat, and what's worse; Everytime the lightning flashed, we saw tentacles rising up from the depths. Only 2 of our ships made it back... (Looks off distantly, glassy-eyed in memory)"
17,"Now that's a fine bit o' cloth. Almost reminds me of Owlbear fur. I tell yah, ain't nothin' better for keepin' back the winter chill."
18,"I once wrestled 20 trolls with my bare hands! Yep, you should have seen those 15 hobgoblins, they were no match for me. Once they saw my muscles, those 10 kobolds ran for the hills!"
19,You'd be surprised how many times an adventurer met their end from overconfidence. I saw a man that cut a giant in two with a single slice die after insisting the river only looked deep.
20,Never ask a paladin about how their oath works unless you want an hour long moral philosophy lecture complete with some shameless proselytizing.
21,Took us nine days to find that phylactery. The lich was pretty pissed when we showed him it. That was the fourth time we killed that ancient relic disguised as a man but that was the first time any of us saw fear in an undead's eyes.
22,"Get bent, young-blood. You don't know nuthin' bout no adven'turing. I know so, 'cause if you'd tell me a story 'bout what yuve seen and I passed my wine jug wi'out noticin' then I'd cut my luv'ely beard! And I. Dunt. Cut. Muh. Beard. Or share teh wine...' (Now the PC's have a chance to RP their characters telling a story of the experiences their character has had.)"
23,"Say now, this reminds me of the time old Zollio rode a giant monitor lizard round the upside of a bridge to get a clear shot at the turtle dragon harassing us. Yessir, he was a sight to behold. Fell the whole way down and still managed to get the killing blow off that bow of his. I can't remember how we made it out of that one."
24,"So... you heard of the pale elf Drost Durden and his white tiger? He defied the laws of the over-light mountains, descended from their snowy peaks, and became a hero of the people. But thats just what the stories say, he is probably as cruel as the rest of them. (Note, there is a Dark Elf there listening to this story who looks very... very... very tired at listening to this)"
25,"See this scar on my chin? The first deer I ever killed, I must have been 14, no 13. I waited for hours in a tree. Shivering in the cold, hungry as a dog. I pissed myself. Finally a young buck casually strolled up to my tree. I was so cold, I was scared my staccato breathing would scare him off. I raised my bow and my hands were shaking. Luckily it was directly under me. I couldn't miss. I let go and the arrow stuck him good in his side. It jumped up and buck a few times like a roaring bull. Then it hopped around in a a zig zag and almost seemed to lay down for a nap. I was young but I knew to wait a moment before approaching. I slowly climbed down the tree. I slipped the last couple feet. I sauntered over to the deer. I slowly kneeled down beside him. I took a moment to admire the steam coming off his body which some druids believe is the deer's life essence leaving this plane. I leaned in close to his face and I thanked him for his meat which I was about to consume. The deer pulled its head back and butted me right in the face. His antler leaving a deep gouge in my chin. He jumped up took a couple steps and again collapsed under its own weight. At 13 years old, I provided for my family that cold night."
26,"When I was your age, we had no idea that there were any other 'planes'. You were born on the prime material, and that's the way we liked it!"
27,"When I was your age, we walked thousands of leagues to dungeons! Uphill both ways!"
28,"Let me tell you something, young adventurer. Treat well you're boots for they protect you more than you know. That being said, I will never wear another pair again. I traded my boots for route sandals long ago, and let me tell you, I ain't putting on another pair of boots! I'd rather die! What do you mean I've used the same phrase twice in one sentence?"
29,"If you suspect that you're gonna run into gnolls, just piss yourself! Hyenae respect the scent of piss. Makes 'em feel like they're messing with the property of someone powerful, ya know?"
30,"I've never been a fan of 'preparing' spells. Back with the clergy of my youth, if you wanted a disease to be cured, THAT'S TOO BAD! YOU HAD TO DIE, JUST AS AMAUNATOR INTENDED!"
31,"I never much cared for dwarfs. To stalky. Too hairy. What are gonna do with all that hair, hm? I don't trust it."
32,"Listen well. You need a danger word. I don't care about safe words or what you do with them. A danger word. Some things out there change their shapes. Mimic us. Hide the truth from your eyes. We had a rule. You found a way to work the danger word into conversation if your suspicions were up, but not your patience. 'Eaglepeak'. That was ours. 'Weather here is nothing like Eaglepeak.' or, 'The food here is worse than Eaglepeak.'"
33,"One day I wondered off from my caravan to relieve myself in private. Just my luck I was ambushed by bandits at the worst possible moment. Then for the first time in my life I was happy to hear the raspy scream of an owlbear. The bandits all ran in opposite directions, the owlbear had pecked on of them really good and was in the process of turning him into a pincushion with its pointy beak. I pulled my pants up, again at the worst possible moment, and I slowly turned around and walked away, once I got far enough to not hear the pecking of flesh I ran."
34,"There we were, trapped on the bridge between the Harpies and the 4-armed Pirate-Gorillas, when Smendrik the Adequate (as we called him then) got the bright idea to cast Featherfall and Burning Hands through a barrel while we all stood on top! How we got the barrel is another interesting tale, you see it four years prior to then that we came across..."
35,"One time we met a Dwarf who bragged that he could disarm ANY trap. So we find something that looks suspicious and we let him prove himself. He's sitting there for 10 minutes trying to disarm a weird little square of tile and a gout of flame shoots out of the wall next to him and sets his beard on fire! He runs around smacking himself trying to put himself out until our cleric finally extinguished him with a water spell. He stands there for a bit, beard half burnt off and drenched in water, looks at us and says 'just avoid that tile'."
36,"One time, a long while ago, Trudy and I were trying to nab some merchant’s permit from a fancy party and Trudy got made. So, to sneak her out, I hid her underneath my ball gown. We were both lucky my corset was big enough. Of course, leaving so suddenly would have been suspicious, which is how I spent 3 hours walking around a party with my sister under my dress. Thankfully, no one offered me a dance."
37,"Never step through a portal. Not once, not ever. My party went through a portal that was supposed to be a shortcut into a wizard's tower, right to the top. Promise of some quality wands in that tower, made us step through without thinking too hard on it. Five years later I came back to the Prime Material with no friends and no wands. I don't talk about those years. Just don't trust portals is all I'm saying."
38,"I won't stand for slander against Warforged. They got souls and I won't hear no arguments about it. No talk of 'tinmen' or 'automatons' at my campfire. You take that backwards thinking to your little farm and hang up your sword, because you ain't fit to be an adventurer. You fight with a 'forged at your back, or you listen to them talkin' about the friends they lost in the first war, and you would know. They might be more human than you or me. Certainly more human than an elf. Don't get me started on those knife-ears."
39,"Never wake a sleeping Gnome. I'm not kidding about this. Sure, you know not to wake a Barbarian, liable to get your arms chopped off, but Gnomes are worse. They can cast spells before they're fully awake, see? Still half dreaming. You haven't regretted a decision quite like getting polymorphed first thing in the morning."
40,"That flintlock you have there, may I see it? Ah, this reminds me of the rifle used by the infamous Tabaxi mage-slayer Odd Song Sung. I tracked that master assassin across this land, to-and-fro. Through battlefields and ruined cities older than you can fathom, yet she always stayed one step ahead. The last time I saw her, atop a tower above the street of Mordhau, eschewing her sights to read the charms she hung from the barrel of her weapon with fine chains as the winds of death shifted through them. I charged up those stone stairs faster than I have ever moved in all my days. But when I burst onto that damn platform there was nothing save for a single scrap of parchment held under a lose stone. 'Goodbye my friend' it said in a curling script, 'it has been an honour fleeing you'. I never saw that Tabaxi again."
41,"When you're in those swamps, never, I repeat, never follow the lights, I've seen what happens, some might drown in the muck, others might get ambushed by lizardfolk, those are the lucky ones, the unlucky ones, they get torn to shreds the fog itself ripping them to shreds like a butcher, so fast they don't have time to scream...I've seen things, are you sure you still want to go out there?"
42,"... and so there 'e was when Oi' saw 'em, bold as a blacksmith strikin' hot-steel, 'e struck that demon on the fore'ead wif 'is fryin' pan! Oi'll ne'er outlive the day! Oi' outlived 'em tho' tha's fer sure, poor bloke 'uz ripped in 'alf shortly thereafter, e' wuz! But Ser Percivale 'e bought tha' rest'a us poor blighters enough time for Brofver Caedsmuire to Banish em, and tha's th' reason Oi' carry this f'oine fryin' pan on me belt, see? 'Sides from bein' 'imm-a-nent-ally prack-ti-cal', it's one-a-them 'Me-minty.. Me-minnow.. Me-mento Mor-as' and prack-ti-klee an ''oly relic'!"
43,"I used to be a blacksmith, but I got run out of town after a string of unlucky lasses had bairns which looked a mite too much like me. I ever tell you the time I had to shoe the Lord of the Nine Hells' Mare? A Nightmare they calls 'em, and she tweren't no mare, I tells yah... well, anyway she were a mite skittish, and so I took hold of her bridle and trotted her a bit, and I tell you each stride of hers was seven leagues, and dragged me along for the ride, and each time she would stop at the house of a lonely local lass and t'wouldn't budge a step afore I had made a call, then after that mare she'd take another step (with me for the ride) to the next maid's cottage, and on and on you see..."
44,"My party would agree but I was the worst bard they ever had. Let me tell you a story to illustrate how bad I was. So here we were taking the time to refresh ourselves in the city when we find out that the town is using some weird magic to keep the place going, some type of sinister version of Druid magic. So there we were investigating when my party member ups and attacks one of the guards because they were in our way despite all of us agreeing to be discreet. So in a panic and also because I felt bad for the guy I casted healing word in hopes of maybe getting the guards off our back by being nice. Well I took out my flute and blew the flattest note my ears have ever heard and I saw that man cough up blood because regardless. If that situation wasn’t so crazy I would’ve laughed my head off that I actually hurt someone with healing word but hey you live and learn and I needed a lot to learn."
45,"Wanna know how I got these scars? Biggest dragon you've ever seen...probably the ugliest too. Anyways me and my mates were hacking him up when he took a wild swipe at me because I insulted his gecko mother. So there we were, me in his claws at least 500 feet in the air. I wrench myself free, climb up to his back and give him a good one two, ride his lifeless corpse all the way back to the hoard. We crash and I am launched noggin first into this beautiful baby I've on my back right now. This greataxe cut me up nice that day, but all the best lovers do that's what I always say!"
46,"You want to know where I got this sword huh? What if I told you I had to go the ninth hell and debate Asmodeus? Or the depths of pandemonium where I lost at least two friends and forgot one other? Mayhaps I got it from the githyanki pirates that killed my dog so I killed them all in return? Or maybe it was fashioned from the brain stem of the beholder that insulted my previous sword size? Perhaps I got it from the ancient vault of Dren'Dar the conquerer after we defeated his ancient blue dragon lover? Or perhaps I got it from Freaky Falzahad's Magic Emporium down the street? You'll have to buy me two or three more ales to find out, friend."
47,"Trust me pal, the best part of adventuring is the food. You ever had dragon stew spiced with the ancient herbs found in a tomb and the marrow of a direboar? Ugh... Speaking of direboar...the tenderloin with a little high altitude mashed potatoes gardened by an centaur? You havent lived friend. Or granita (fruit ice) made by various fruits you had frozen during a fight with a white dragon? Refreshment for days. I could go on for years my friend, but I have another dish calling my name, until next time!"
48,"I lost this hand fighting sirens a mile off the coast, oh... ten years back, I reckon. I keeps a leather pouch of the bones to remind me of my mortality; each drilled and filled with a mix of tin, lead, and a shaving from a single sterling piece, blessed by a priest of Saint Quimbles; and etched with the runes. Shalls I cast them and divine thy fate?"
49,"Best not to deal with nobility who ask for discretion in carrying out their tasks. Better yet, best not to accept a blabbermouth into your ranks. Best not travel to the shadiest part of town and loudly announce your search of information on an assassination plot. Best not to blindly follow the kind old gentleman out of town, as he knows the assassins' hideout. Best not to let your guard down and invite an ambush on your friends. Best not leave them to their deaths in desperation towards saving your own skin. Best not let your past force you into a life of running and hiding. Best not to deal with nobility who ask for discretion."
50,"There we were, about to be over-run by the damned, our backs against the fallen portcullis, when out of 'er satchel Sister Bloeddwyd Angelique pulled forth the candle prepared by the Holy-Matron and blessed by the Light. When she lit her taper, the candle shone forth a light fit to blind us! She placed the candle in the lock of the portcullis and a great flash and shout of a hundred wrathful angels blew us an opening! I'd not be sitting here telling you the tale were it not for her!"
51,"Never underestimate a Kobold, ye hear? Me brothers in arms wound up as food in thier cook fires, and I'd be there too if'n I didn't high-tail it the moment I saw those first traps! Oh, aye, you call me a coward, but I'll ne'er go down any hole where'st I's s'pect them scaly buggers to be lurkin'! You's best be doin' the same as I, and mind yourself! Mark me words!"
52,"Aye, nowhere, no place in this world leaves you weary as the blasting fields. Scores of brave men and women have been swallowed by the harrowed place. For what? Glory. Ha. Riches. What vanity we had. The earth rumbles with every step you take. The smell burns your eyes and the air takes your senses. Me and my mates, brave as we once were, never feared it though. We should’ve. We should’ve feared the jets of fire that shot out like columns holding the sky above. But we didn’t. No. We marched, knowing the dangers. Knowing the risks. Knowing the rewards. Damn our arrogance. If we weren’t foolhardy enough to turn at the sight of that place, we certainly hadn’t the mind to beware the creatures that called the place home. That’s where I found out how true horror felt. How it seeps into your bones."
53,"I was a hired by a small band of naïve adventurers to guide them through the mountain passes in early winter. We should have turned back when the skies began to darken. But the gold... The storm hit hard and a thick, heavy blanket of snow covered every discernable landmark. The storm continued without end. I soon lost my way but, I kept that to myself. Because, the gold... Wolves took two of them in the dead of night, one froze to death after falling through the ice, and the last one? After six days in that frozen hell, I was the only one to walk out. But the gold..."
54,"(While tuning a lute) Have I played 'The Mouse and the Magister' for you yet? That used to be my specialty. Never failed to get the people clapping and the gold flowing. Now how did it go? 'La de da... mouse...' That's not it. When I played this for the Queen of Names she made me a knight on the spot. That's a true story. You can call me Sir, please and thank you. 'La de da de da... mouse...' Damn... Let me just play 'Sunrise Over Waterdeep' for you again."
55,"I'm telling you, first time I fought one it was called a Water Normal. That was many moons back now, you can believe that. Water Normals, used to pop out of wells in villages, just about every harvest, sure as the crops. Then a few decades go by and they're not so regular, we start to hear them called Water Uncommons. Over hunted, see? Nowadays you almost never see them. You worry much when you get water from a well? You're welcome. And so, yes, Water Weird, because they are now."
56,"Just sos you know, you can dance with the dead in the pale moonlight. It ain't the dancin' that's the problem, it's the leavin' after. Their grip is a might bit stronger than a clamp o' iron. It probably wasn't worth the gold my pals bet me to do it. (He/she shows off a huge scar). You should've seen the other guy, though."
57,"We once convinced a kobold colony to mine out a block of stone in the ceiling of a dragon's lair, dropping in on their head. Dragon problem done just like that, though, those damn kobolds did drive us out before we managed to take a share of the dragon's hoard..."
58,"I only loved one man: Bernar was his name, and what a fine man he was. He could swing an axe like a twig, and drank brandy like it was water. I had to leave him, however... I took a contract to hunt down a hag. Turns out my suspicions were right.. it was my mother in law!"
59,"Now, I COULD spend the next turn of the hourglass telling you lies about the best way to wield a longsword; lies I learned guarding the Duke, and learned were lies when the Masked Menace cut the Duke's Demon-possessed head clean off; but since you're buying me a drink, tell me a bit of your travels?"
60,Throws his drink at the painting of a wealthy nobleman. Noble my rear end! I've seen that man make love to a sheep after just 2 cups of mead. That ironbrained oaf still owes me 30 gold pieces too. I won it fair and square in a card game. He said he was good for it and I let him off the hook at the time but I should've taken his thumb as collateral and I woulda been justified to do it too. The healer I ran with at the time could've put it back on 3 weeks later in just 10 minutes I tell ya.
61,"That sure is a nice weapon you have there, young adventurer. But it's not about the size or value of the weapon, but the way that you use it. The older adventurer reaches for something strapped to their back and brings it into the younger adventurer's vision This here is 'Pointy.' My party and I were asleep in the forest one night, when I woke up surrounded by goblins and the sounds of screaming and crunching. No weapons, no armor, and my fellow adventurers were already as good as dead. The only thing nearby was this one strong, arm-span long, and unusually pointy stick. It must have been sent by divine beings that cast pity on me because it seemed to shine as I quickly reached for it. I picked it up, and I just started jabbing it at every goblin that came near me. Quick thrusts. I aimed for the eyes. I was there all night, and, just as I was about to collapse from exhaustion, the sun started to rise, and the goblins, many of whom were missing at least one eye each at this point, retreated. Ever since then, I have always kept Pointy with me to remind me that the most humble of tools can have the greatest of effects, to remind me of my lost comrades, and, well, in case of goblins."
62,"Speaking of alcohol, if you ever go to the Pinepoint Inn down the street NEVER drink more than one pint of their Hunter's Meade. I know it may be delicious, but I did it a couple of years ago and I woke up in a cave surrounded by a group of Kobolds who apparently started worshiping me as their new regent. Took me three weeks to get out of there! I can hold my liquor, but I'm never drinking Hunter's Meade again."
63,"The Icy Wastes are cold, cold, cold I tells ya! Only madmen and the darkest of evil travels there! I lost a hand and a leg to the cold, after I followed the Lost Prince and the Crusade to find the Egg! We found the Egg alright; it was beautiful, like a singular jewel, just sitting there on the altar of the Icy Temple, glittering for all to see! Then the men began to scream and freeze into place! I ran away, dragging my frozen limbs, of fifty men that went in, only three returned, and the Prince was not one of them!"
64,"A cloaked and masked lady once hired us to take her deep into the woods, then bade us keep our distance while she spent the night alone atop a hill crowned with a ring of faerie stones. She never told us her name and commanded us never to speak of it. But do you remember the festivities when old Queen Gennereth turned out not to be barren after all? And isn't her daughter a rare beauty, like something you've never seen? Makes you think."
65,Before you use your spell casting powers to win the affections of a fair woman or gallant gentleman remember the tale of the wizard Geniinewab. When Geniiwewab heard that the fair maiden Alessandra's beloved crow was ill he trapped all the town clerics in a forcecage so that Alessandra would be forced to consult him instead. In an effort to demonstrate his magnificent power Geniinewab killed Alessandra's crow with finger of death and then used a wish spell to revive it. The night after casting that wish spell Geniinewab caught the flu. Since the great wizard was enfeebled by the wish spell and all the town healers were locked up Geniinewab died within a week.
66,"Now, don't believe a word they say 'bout the moon being made of green cheese. I should know, I was there, me and my mates, you see, we sailed there one night when we were lost in a thick fog off the coast of Nuperie... Just remember when sailing, if you see a big fog bank roll in under a moonlit sky.. you should turn the ship right around and 'Nuperie' right out of there! Ha Ha Ha!"
67,"My faithful hounds!', they's call us, their Majesties would! Why.. hold on, my neck itches.. would you scratch it? These old arms can't quite reach behind.. ahh! Oh yiss, thats divine.. that thumping noise? Oh.. sorry.. my leg does that when I get scratched there.. well anyway, they used their baleful magics to turn us into the very hounds they imagined us as, the party and I, you see.. we spent a good six years in that state, hunting the nine-tailed fox spirits! How'd we change back? Well their Majesties got offed by a party of adventurers, and wouldn't you know it, we changed right back to ourselves... Petersen though still had that awful case of magical fleas!"
68,"Now now.. where's my pen and paper? I must certainly write down an account of your travels, they seem comparable or even to eclipse my own, most remarkable tales... most remarkable! Why, I too, recall coming up against savages, and thought my solution to be quite ingenious, you see, my party and I would replace the gemstone eyes of their idolatrous god with costume jewelry INDISTINGUISHABLE to the real thing... unfortunately, someone had already beaten us to the punch! The gems were fake the whole time! Oh, you should have seen Lord Perfidy's apoplectic face! He kept that face for the few moments of his life he had remaining after taking that savage's spear to the guts! Which, I daresay, still haunts me whenever I close my eyes for more than a moment..."
69,"...that little spark and glimmer in a person's eyes when you JAB your blade into their GUTS and they are seconds away from slipping out of this reality? Oh, my favorite look indeed! Yours?"
70,"Me? I knew th' 'Dread Pirate Roberts' back when 'e was just known as 'The Mildly Frightening Pirate Roberts'! T'was I what gave 'e and his 'ole crew th' idear to re-brand, I did! S'truth!"
71,"... And THAT is the story of how I lost my leg! You ready to hear the story of how I lost my... oh what? Out of time? I'm sorry Children, that story will have to happen at another time! Good bye! Be good now, Children! So long! Byeee! Now, mates, where was I? Oh yes, the story of how I lost my right eye! It's a sordid tale involving the most beautiful ghost lady-captain I ever did see! Our love was one for the ages! I had my eye removed and magically enchanted to only ever see her, I did! And that was how I came to lose my Left Hand! You see it was shortly after..."
72,"... and THAT, my friends, is why you don't go sticking ANY part of your AN-AT-OH-MEE anywhere near a mimic what looks like a KEE-YOOT little innocent stuff-ed an-ee-myool, no siree! Why that poor himbo over there lost more than one peice of his elf to that mistake! What? He looks fine to you? Why that boy is devastated! Devastated!"
73,"Now, I'm usually pretty good with the ladies, no lie, but I tell you when I, in a drunken stupor, asked the Goddess Ishtar for a kiss, and got one! Why, I was over the moon! That night we made sweet, passionate love... you should have seen it! raunchy humping motions... but.. I feel I can trust you with this, the next morning, there was a donkey in my bed!! I never did see where Ishtar went, and now mere mortals just aren't the same. Ever since then I've decided to limit myself to just ten, ten drinks.. maybe twenty a night, so's the next time I see that Goddess, I won't pass out and get to see her afore she leaves..."
74,"And on tha twelfth night, it 'as exactly as dark as on the 'leventh, but then BAM! suddenly tha' brightest light I never did seen came shinin' outta that tower and ALL the demons of Hell a'came a'riding out of it, it near sounded like.. the light made that much noise, jennle-men, I guarantee."
75,"When we moved to break into the block wall bricking up the secret passage, we found the body of someone who died trying to escape. Their fingers were worn to stumps and the back of the blocks were bloody. Never did find out what scared 'em so."
76,"All I'm sayin' is a good adventurer needs a good pair of gloves. Too many potion sellers don't wash their hands, and who knows what kind of poison is gonna get under your nails? And besides, if you hold your weapon without a pair, your palms will get all calloused. Mine are smooth as a baby's bottom, wanna feel?"
77,"If you're ever in the deep forest, and come across a clearing you've not seen afore, empty save for a ring of mushrooms, turn around, and walk away. It ain't worth your troubles, believe me. You know how hard it is to escape the Fae? Damned bastards took me for everything I had, and I'm lucky at that. And this damned mark on my hand never did fade, either."
78,"I remember once back in my mercenary days, we were besieging this walled city... on a hill... on a peninsula. Perfect defensive position, right? Our employer was smart enough to know that a normal assault would have been suicide. So we just blasted the place with explosive spells. Days and days of hurling fire and lightning at those walls while trying not to get shot by their archers... I can still hear the booming in my ears sometimes. Eventually we brought a wall down and stormed the city. Damned messy business."
79,"It was the third month of the Long Cloud, by our reckoning. I was out hunting when I saw some shady looking folk around what looked like an altar. I laid there for a little, listening to them chant gibberish, but I knew I couldn't take 'em all in a fight. Left a few traps for the bastards, though. Never found out if they were behind the whole thing."
80,"Lemme tell you something kid, wizards are all fine and dandy... as long as they stick to the normal spells. But you ever meet a wizard who goes on about experimenting, and new forms of magic... you get out of there. Nine times out of ten that whole thing will end in a big explosion."
81,"These ales are practically water! A true man's drink can only be found in the Crested City. They use their crystals, ya see, and grind 'em up and put 'em in the drinks. Stronger and better than any other! I need to get back there some day."
82,"Aliases are healthy, kid! You give a false name when dealing with anyone that might want you harmed. Not to mention fairies and the like. I've got a dozen or so names you might find around the country! Of course this isn't my real one either. You really think my parents named me Mortimer?"
83,"I don’t take drinks or food from people I don’t know. Got me in trouble quite a few times in my youth. I thought myself as quite charming, and tried making conversation with a Hag my party and me were having dealings with. Asked about the pot of soup she had cooking behind her, and instead of an answer I got a bowl full of the stuff. Well, I couldn’t just back down from a challenge, could I? It tasted alright, and the she told me about the slaad eggs she had planted in it. Told me I had three months before it would erupt and kill me, unless we went and got the scales of a black dragon for her. Lucky for me, I could think on my feet, and so I stuck my fingers down my throat and puked the monstrosity out onto her! Oh, she was raging mad, and my party was about ready to kill me after we fought her. But it all worked out alright, didn’t it?"
84,"When the King did call for brave 'venturers explorin' the frontiers, I did answer the call. When the King did demand we'n all lay down our lives and clear these lands in 'is name, I did, and my wife and children too! And, when it were them what lost that life an' I forced to remain these 15 years past, what does the King and Crown do when dark-forces do gather and threaten all we have done? Does e' go reward our service? Does the Crown protect? Nay! The Crown abandons us! Mayhaps we should abandon the Crown..."
85,"Fire, I says; 'tis your best friend an' t'worst enemy t'at the same time! Sees this scar 'pon me face? Flask of oil 'xlpoded afore I could throw 'er when the party and I faced off against that dark wizard Woss'zname? Frank!? Frank me boy, what was that wizard's name? The one where I got this scar strangling the life out of with these two hands!? Oh, Frank's asleep I see. Too boring for you, eh Frank!??!"
86,"When Ser Porthe fell in battle off the far shores of Guthay, we saw fit to preserve the body from putrefaction by storing it in a cask of fine Canary that had previously been Ser's favorite. Seeing as not to waste any, as they likely took up quite a bit of the barrel, we shared a goodly portion with the fellow crew, before sealing. Now, I dare say, I scarcely can take a glass without remembering and mourning the fact that we still lack the golds required for their resurrection... Let's Toast to Good Ser Porthe! Ser Porthe!"
87,"I came here to drink and forget the heaps of trouble my spouse lays upon me on a daily basis. Oh fer certain, I marched with the Lord against that vile Hag and their coven, but no matter how far we marched we could never catch em. Each night we lost a soldier or more, when they ran from the camp screaming of night terrors, we usually found their bodies in the morning... tell you the truth, Id rather be there than back home with the fractious family, some days..."
88,"Loudest t'ing I never did 'ear, I confess, wuz tha 'splosion of tha Powder Stores on tha' Good Ship Lawbringer. Oh she brought tha law that day, I was on 'er, and she brought tha Law of Unintended Consequences! Shattered tha port, and collapsed tha channel, she did, and collapsed tha sea wall too! Lost us tha battle, and tha city when they gained entrance via tha hole. I managed ta survive, but I lost my hearing and was imprisoned and then enslaved for six years! Was a miracle and a steep one I paid for, when a travelling cleric healed me, and took me from that place..."
89,"You 'kiss the toe' yet? S'posed to be a ritual, you know. A warnin' against those who dont pay their tab. I got a deal I did! Thats my toe, I paid my tab with it! You wouldnt mind buyin me a drink now, would ya?"
90,"I tells ya, I saw FOUR, FOUR! masked Tortles down in those sewers! Meanest I ever came across. Scuffled with 'em once on a run for the society, see.. they kept shouting if I wanted a piece-a-them, well.. when I saws they were all armed, and with that tough shell.. well, I turned tail and ran. Now, don't go thinking me a coward now, when I found out they took down that Grell, that golem, and those masked warrior monks that worshipped it? Well.. seems I made the smart choice, friend-o; the smart choice!"
91,"Y'all ever heard of the snail that wouldn't die? Once we were delving in a deep forgotten dungeon, looking fo' loot and other bits. Well we found some, a great big chest that was lock'd like sumfin tough. Well our sneakthief open'd it and there weren't nothing but single snail, still living but it didnt have no food in there. Little thing started to crawl out towards the north, ignoring everythin' we did to it. Scared me silly, still never did get us no loot from that place."
92,"... so trapped as we were and with days before help would arrive, we did what we had to to survive. I'm not proud of want we did, but I challenge any decent creature in the same position to do different. Anyways, I'll tell you something for nothing. Kobold doesn't taste anything like chicken."
93,"Once knew human. Skinny little thing she was. Ranger. Good with a bow. Obsessed with herself. Beauty treatments, strange potions. You name it, she'd try it. Got herself hold of some paste with flail snail muck in it. Rubbed it all over her skin. The next morning, she started glowing all different colours. Real bright like. Never laughed so hard in my life. Like watchin a magic show. Took us weeks and weeks to find a wizard to reverse the effects. Sometimes, when she hiccuped, she'd still let out a little burst of colour."
94,"All nobles are bastards, right? Only some are bigger bastards than others. Myself and a group of, um, compatriots got ourselves hired by a bunch of farmers to defend a town and a handful of villages from some hobgoblin raiders. Couple days in, we mange to capture one alive. Turns out the local baron was the one that hired them. He wanted to raise taxes and was using the raids as an excuse. Anyway, long story short, the baron ended up on the wrong end of a hobgoblin sword and the lads ended up being very well paid."
95,"Take my advice son, steer clear of fey. Don't mess with the little ones and steer clear of the big ones. Don't talk to them, don't even look at them if you can avoid it. Carry some cold iron on you, just in case. And especially, don't bargain with them. No good can come of it. There's a reason they call me 'Tails' and it ain't because I'm a good story teller."
96,"My arm? Did I lose my arm in the war? Well, let me put it this way young person. The next time a wizard tells you to keep your arms at your sides during a teleport spell, you do it!"
97,"(Hoarse voice) Harum... I haven't cough... haven't seen much of folk in the past year, bit out of practice talking. But been out on my own since I uh... lost my adventuring partners to a wolf attack. (scratches their neck, a bite scar is visible on it) Biggest wolf I ever seen, tore through four of us like we was thin cloth stretched over bales of hay. Bowled me over onto a rock, hit my head and was out for I don't know how long. (clears throat and it sounds like a low growl) Came to and that beast was gnawing on what was left of my buddies, muzzle soaked in blood. I must've made a noise because it suddenly looked at me, eyes ablaze... (glances nervously at the moon breaking through the clouds) That was the unluckiest and luckiest time of my life. It jumped me, slowed down I guess from being gorged on my friends. Got its jaws locked on my throat but I got a hand up in time, saved me from getting killed instantly. (holds out a hand with deep, ragged scars all along it, highlighted in the glow of the campfire) Figured I was done for but my other hand happened to fall on what remained of our priestly fella. Whatever god he worshiped must've put his dagger right where I'd grab it. I just stabbed blindly. Maybe hit something important 'cause the creature leapt away like it was seared with a hot poker. (pulls out a fancy dagger, more ceremonial than practical, its silvery blade shining. The speaker's voice grows more hoarse, a barking cough escaping their lips) Kept it with me ever since... just... in... caaaaasse.... (And the moon breaks from the clouds entirely, bathing the campfire circle in its pale glow as the speaker bends double with a howl of pain as their limbs start to contort...)"
98,"I got lost in a good book, once. Took me pages and pages to find my way out, and you ask me where my fingers on my left hand went? Paper cuts, I tell yah! Damn thing up and swallowed me whole while reading! Was my favorite book too..."
99,"Strange lad? You want to hear something strange? Well, I adventured with this mage for a couple of years. He was a bit ... odd. Kept to himself mostly, very private and shy. Insisted on separate sleeping quarters. Mumbled a lot. We all figured, y'know, magic user. Weirdness. Paranoia. Odd behaviour. Strange smells. It comes with the territory. Too much mercury and bat shit in spell components. Anyway, we get hired by this prince to get rid of a gauth and when we tracked it down, the thing just laughed and laughed at us. Then 'gulp', it ate our mage, all in one go. Then, it spat out three Batiri goblins. One. Two. Three. Whole and intact. Damnedest thing I ever saw. When the gauth stopped laughing, he thanked us for the meal and entertainment and said he'd be moving on. Turns out, the little buggers had found some kind of enchanted cloak and had been sitting on each others shoulders. Had us proper fooled."
100,"Fundamental rule of adventuring my friend: always, always, always make sure your potions haven't expired. Knew this elf that left a potion of animal friendship in his backpack for a wee bit too long. We were trying to get past some wolves at the mouth of a cave, and he remembered this potion. Well, the wolves became friendly. A little too friendly if you get my drift. That poor elf, he had creatures coming at him from all directions. Spent the next few hours running around trying to avoid the attention of bears and bats and birds. Let that be a lesson to you all: test before you taste."

d100,Entry

1,"""I once hit a medusa so hard in the face its eyes saw each other."""
2,"""I once shouted the fire off of a burning orphanage."""
3,"""I once killed 7 men in one stroke."""
4,"""I once killed 7 flies in one stroke."""
5,"""I once lived for a year in a barren desert solely off of juice which I squeezed from rocks."""
6,"""I once killed a red dragon with fire."""
7,"""I stole a kiss from a nymph in a hidden grotto, cold as the moon she was, but twice as lovely."""
8,"""I once beat an ogre in an arm wrestle."""
9,"""I punched an incoming arrow once. It went right through the eye of the archer."""
10,"""Once had a dryad wanna inhabit my wood if'n ya know what I mean."""
11,"""One time, I beat the mayor in an egg spoon race."""
12,"""I once outdrank a clan of dwarves in a drinking contest."""
13,"""I once caught a fish that was TTTTHHHHIIIIISSSSS BIG."""
14,"""I got a free go at the land's most expensive brothel by pretending to be the king."""
15,"""One time I seduced a god. That's why they weren't answering your prayers."""
16,"""I once blew out a fire elemental with a belch."""
17,"""I once drank an entire water elemental."""
18,"""My shadow is actually a Shadow. It does what I want because it's scared of me."""
19,"""Once I was bit by a wererat and it turned into me."""
20,"""I once led an army of kobolds."""
21,"""I've been to the 7th layer of the Abyss."""
22,"""I once told a riddle so ingenious a Sphinx couldn't solve it. It killed itself out of shame."""
23,"""I'm so good at handstands I can do them with two hands tied behind my back!"""
24,"""I once drowned a merfolk."""
25,"""Grew a beard so rough it beat a mindflayer in a tentacle wrestling contest."""
26,"""Found Vecna's liver and it's not done me any wrong since I got it in."""
27,"""I once drank myself free from a bowl of watery death."""
28,"""I once ambushed a mimic with my disguise."""
29,"""I once threw a minotaur so far, he landed in a different kingdom."""
30,"""I once cut off all of a hydra's heads at once."""
31,"""I once seduced a succubus."""
32,"""I once tricked a mimic with a fake adventurer."""
33,"""I once beat an ettin in a staring contest."""
34,"""Just last week, I ate 100 hard boiled eggs in an hour."""
35,"""I once domesticated a displacer beast. Nasty things are impossible to keep track of, so I had to get rid of it."""
36,"""I once defeated a clan of trolls while in the middle of a pie eating contest and still won."""
37,"""I flexed so hard once that the vampire sucking my blood popped."""
38,"""I once used all three wishes from a ring to get a nice mutton and lettuce sandwich where the mutton is extra lean."""
39,"""I can dodge a Spear of Backbiting."""
40,"""I once beat a Medusa in a staring contest!"""
41,"""Drizzt Do'Urden personally gifted me a panther cub to be my familiar."""
42,"""I am the Raven Queen."""
43,"""I once drank a decanter of endless water dry."""
44,"""I once hit an owlbear SOOO hard, it turned into a bearowl."""
45,"""I beat Asmodeus at dragon chess once."""
46,"""I killed a man, with THIS THUMB."""
47,"""Lightweight! I once drank a dragon under the table, I'll have you know!"""
48,"""I once wrestled a dragon out of the sky."""
49,"""I once beat a Beholder in a game of I Spy."""
50,"""I've had, like, 50 heart attacks, and I'm still standing!"""
51,"""I convinced a God to make a star for me, no you can't see it from here."""
52,"""I calmed a raging barbarian."""
53,"""I once got a standing ovation from (a famous bard)."""
54,"""I convinced (a famous cleric or paladin) to follow me."""
55,"""I put a suit of armor on a monk."""
56,"""I spotted (a famous rogue) sneaking around the city."""
57,"""I beat (a famous ranger or druid) at hide and seek in the woods."""
58,"""I beat (a famous wizard or scholar) in a trivia competition."""
59,"""I cracked a set of adamantine armor."""
60,"""I drank everything out of an Alchemy Jug."""
61,"""I exterminated a camp of ogres while wearing armor of vulnerability."""
62,"""I found an arrow of me slaying, stabbed myself with it, and didn’t pass out from the pain."""
63,"""I pulled myself out from inside a bag of devouring."""
64,"""I beat out someone wearing boots of speed in a foot race."""
65,"""I held a door closed through a Chime of Opening."""
66,"""I saw someone wearing a cloak of invisibility."""
67,"""I walked through the barrier from a Cube of Force."""
68,"""I’ve killed enough dragons to create a a set of Dragon Scale Mail for each dragon type."""
69,"""I hid from someone using a Gem of Seeing."""
70,"""I bench-pressed an Immovable Rod."""
71,"""I beat a Storm Giant in a wrestling match."""
72,"""I won a barfight against someone who had just drank a Potion of Invulnerability."""
73,"""I drank my weight in Potions of Poison."""
74,"""I found a Robe of Useful Items and the only patch on it was me."""
75,"""I opened something glued shut with Sovereign Glue."""
76,"""I walked through a Sphere of Annihilation."""
77,"""I found a luckstone carved in the image of me."""
78,"""Someone used Detect Magic, and all it found was me."""
79,"""I once converted a Mind Flayer to veganism."""
80,"""I was almost the king' s brother/sister-in-law."""
81,"""I just downed the spiciest burrito you ever did see. Until a couple seconds ago my mouth was still smoldering."""
82,"""I once peed of a cliff and hit a bird three meters away from me."""
83,"""You know that mine in the nearby mountains? I dug it. With a single punch."""
84,"""I once kicked a shark so hard it exploded."""
85,"""I once hit a Mind Flayer so hard its tentacles went in its mouth."""
86,"""I went to a village in the far lands and drove the inhabitants insane."""
87,"""I'm a celestial travel guide looking for a green starship."""
88,"""I've danced with a devil in the pale moonlight."""
89,"""I put the man in manticore."""
90,"""I can cast spells with no hands."""
91,"""With my serenade, I once enthralled a siren."""
92,"""I've visited the cloud district often, have you? Oh what am I saying."""
93,"""A dwarf has no chance in our drinking my liver."""
94,"""I once stopped a hurricane by shooting at it with a bow."""
95,"""Dragons learned how to breathe fire from me."""
96,"""Your looking at the man who has made three volcanoes erupt prematurely."""
97,"""I once casted a tenth level spell."""
98,"""I once beat a demon so bad he begged an occultist sent him back."""
99,"""I once painted a portrait so lifelike the buyer started using it as a mirror."""
100,"""I've hiked so many mountains I know all the mountain goats by name."""

d100,Entry

1,A frying pan and lid that materializes one fully cooked breakfast platter for one once per day when exposed to flame. Someone's mother had it enchanted as a gift for their child who was leaving home so that they could always have a home cooked breakfast.
2,A pair of green rimmed spectacles that translates elvish text into common while wearing them. An elf made them so that he and his adopted daughter could read some elvish adventure tomes that he brought home together.
3,"A levitating quill that writes out whatever the last person who touched it wants, given that it has enough ink and parchment. Someone's son had it commissioned after his novelist father lost feeling in both of his hands after a wall collapsed on him."
4,A hooded cloak made of various patches of leather that has a belt fasten to the front. It generates heat on the wearer if blown upon by wind. It was made as gift for a lover so that they could travel the mountain ranges without worry of freezing.
5,"A pair of small blank scrolls with matching handles. Whatever you write/draw on one scroll (in ink) appears on the other within 3 minutes. 24 hours after ink touches the blank page, everything written on it melts away permanently. Made by two young Divination apprentices who wanted to keep in touch with each other."
6,A small leather vest enchanted to magically float when exposed to water. Commissioned by a noble after his daughter almost drowned in the estate fish pond.
7,"Two rings with a small ruby set in each. When pressed, the emerald makes the other ring warm up slightly. Crafted by a travelling jeweler so she could communicate to her lover when she was thinking of him."
8,"A leather collar with a small metal emblem of a star on it. A matched bracelet with the same emblem. A person wearing the bracelet can make a small light hover 50 feet above the collar. A wife commissioned this collar after her husband, a retired soldier with significant PTSD, lost the dog that he had bonded with."
9,"A soft, well made blanket that can, once per long rest, emit a soft glow, maintained by concentration. The blanket was crafted by an enchanter after his young son confided he was afraid of the dark to help his son get to sleep."
10,A hand knitted hat that will keep the wearer cool when it’s hot and warm when it’s cold. Commissioned for a man who had no hair by his sister.
11,"A music box pendant, that, when wound and played, emits a somber, soothing song, like one sung by a long-dead but much-loved parent to their child. While the song plays, other sound around the wearer is muffled, and the user cannot be frightened."
12,"A small brass claw, meant to be set on a desk and have a gemstone inserted into its top. It gives a small, hologram-like view of an elemental plane, changing which plane is displayed by changing the gemstone. It seems to have been a gift from a noble to his child, as such craftsmanship would be quite expensive."
13,"A medallion that, when focused on, always displays a faint blue line, curving around trees or arching over rocks. It will always show the fastest way home, but not the easiest, a flawed enchantment made by a well-meaning wife for her husband, so that he could always find his way back to her."
14,"An enchanted censer that was made by a daughter for her father, who was suffering from PTSD following the battle that robbed him of his arm. No matter what incense is burned in the censer, it gives advantage on wisdom saving throws."
15,"A set of bracelets that when one is broken the other immediately breaks as well. When one is mended, the other mends itself. Created by a brother who was going off to war, for his younger brother staying home. This was so the older brother would know if things got bad at home. If the bracelet snapped, he promised to come home no matter what."
16,"A simple wooden cup that warms and cools liquids to make them taste better. Water is pleasantly cool, ale is near freezing, coffee and tea are heated to the user's preference. Created by a travelling wizard for a young woman in a small village who he had fallen for, when he overheard her mention her disappointment that her tea had gotten cold."
17,A small wood carving knife that loses it's edge as long as the blade touches the wielder's skin. Does not need to be sharpened. Made for a craftsman's son who had a tendency to nick himself while whitiling.
18,"A pair of overalls that have a mild levitation charm imbued into them, will float off like a balloon if left unabated. Made for a retired soldier by his superior officer to alleviate pain to his knees whenever he put weight on them."
19,A bedroll that creates a mild water repellent barrier around it as long as someone is laying on it. A gift made for a traveling merchant so that he wouldn't worry about sleeping in the rain.
20,A copper horn that allows the user have advantage to perception rolls based on hearing when used. Made for an aging grandmother so that she could hear her grand kids better.
21,"An ornamental birdcage containing an exceptionally realistic stuffed bird. While uncovered, the ""bird"" softly twitters beautiful melodies. Created by a bird-loving artificer for a family of wealthy aristocrats. Though the birdcage has been in the family for over a generation, none of the family members have noticed that the bird itself is fake."
22,A brass spoon that neutralizes any harmful toxin within a liquid one spoonful at a time. Made for a Duke's son after he received a death threat via mail.
23,A pair of gloves that softly hums different notes based on the type of metal they touch (mostly used for coins). Made for a merchant that went blind so that he wouldn't be swindled.
24,"A brass gauntlet that glows a different color depending on what time of day it is (Blue for night, yellow for day, Green for dawn, Purple for dusk). Made for a coal miner by his boss so that he would when he could go home."
25,"A red scarf sewn with silver beads into the fabric, magically filters air that is sucked through it when worn as a face wrap. Made as a gift for an obsidian miner to avoid complications with volcano fumes."
26,A small hammer that will drive in any nail strait in. Commissioned for a carpenter by his children when his hands started shaking in old age.
27,A small rubber ball that would roll to the nearest dog or wolf within 50ft of it. Made for a man whose dog went blind and wanted to continue to play with it.
28,A fishing pole with a bobber that looks like a human eye. When using the pole one can look through the bobber and watch the hook and bait to see when the fish bites. Given to an old soldier as a retirement gift.
29,A fashionable and large hat that cloaks the user in shadow. Made as a wedding gift to a drow bride moving to the surface.
30,A feathered cap whose feather is a quill that can write 5 pages of notes. The feather disappears after an hour and a new feather grows from the cap. Made by a wizard for his forgetful apprentice who would always lose or forget his pen.
31,A comb that when combed through hair braids it into an fashionable design. Commissioned for a dwarf who wanted his beard to look stylish.
32,"A small silver cat bell that, once night falls, causes the death of 2d6 vermin in the house the bell is kept in. Manifested itself after the well loved cat of a farm died. Every now and then, the bell will softly chime and manifest a haunt such as; the feeling of fur rubbing on your leg, a cat's tongue licking your fingers, the sound of contented purring filling everyone's ears and the occasional decoration knocked off it's shelf."
33,"Sun-filled mirror-catch box, it has enough sunlight to fill a room with bright light. Built by a retired adventuring dwarf and filled by passing adventurers. Not every denizen of the underdark has the means or bravery to leave the underground but they still hold curiosity over the sun and it's light, some come from miles underground to view this dwarf's curio."
34,"A large conch shell that, when put to the ear, makes the wielder hear the sounds of the ocean. If you close your eyes while doing so, you'll see visions of infinite horizons and calming ocean waves. A gift from a pirate lord to his estranged, landlocked son to give him at least a glance as to why he left."
35,"A small mobile showing a scene of sheep hopping over a fence that, when hung, all around it will find it easier to enter restful sleep and ignore less dangerous interruptions. The first successful craft by an apprentice Artificer for his insomniac mentor."
36,"A leather Tabard made of orc skin that allows those who wear it to be able to use rage once per day. Legends tell of the friendship between an elf ranger and an orc barbarian, whose tribe had strange funerary rites. When the orc was struck down, with his final words, he requested that he'd be turned into a tabard so he could protect his friend once more."
37,"3 shot glasses with markings on the side, when all the glasses are empty, any alcohol poured into one glass fills the other two as well. The markings on the glass move to indicator the level of the other two glasses. A creation of an artificer dwarf for his two brothers as the sought out life beyond the mines. Funny enough, doesn't work when [insert hated alcohol] is poured in it."
38,"A pair of ornate chessboards with pieces made of ivory. The pieces are enchanted to move via vocal commands and any move on one board is mirrored on the other. The possession of a prince and princess of two opposite, warring states."
39,A frilly parasol that emits a small cone of magical darkness when opened. The gift of a nobleman for his vampire wife.
40,A yarn doll that has an embedded communication spell. Made by a wizard father for his daughter so that he could talk to her while he traveled. The companion object is a locket with a cut of hair and a portrait in it.
41,"A finely crafted handheld mirror made out of ivory, glass, and silver. Small runes are inscribed into the back, and words in a forgotten tongue glow softly around the handle. Whoever looks into the mirror will see themselves reflected, but in the background will be what the individual knows in his/her/its mind as home. In the presence of the mirror, all illusions fade, and all invisible creatures are revealed by glowing outlines. It was originally made by a wanderer who had recently returned home from a long journey to a strange land."
42,"A leather lined steel helmet with a pair of matching elvish insignia on either side of it. When someone puts both hands on the insignias and speak into the helm, it will magically record what was said and play it back for whoever is wearing it when they touch one of the insignia. Given to a soldier who tended to forget his orders on long trips."
43,A fishing net that will repair itself of any tears 12 hours after they happen. Commissioned as a retirement gift for a small town politician.
44,A custom made sand paper block that has a dial on the back that adjusts the grain size of the paper without having to physically change it out. Commissioned by a wood worker as a gift to his son and his up and coming business.
45,Tall leather boots that are highly resistant to piercing damage. Made for a hunter who tended to forget where he laid his bear traps.
46,A knife and fork set made from Mithril with small runes embed in the handles. When the fork is inserted into food (non-living material) it allows the knife to cut through it with little to no resistance. Made as a gift from a wife to her husband so that he wouldn't waste time sawing through her cooking like a log.
47,A sand timer that takes vocal commands and can makes various chime noises. Made for a weapons smith to better keep track of how long something is in the kiln.
48,A wooden top that will keep spinning as long as someone is looking at it. Made to teach concentration to a young boy who had problems focusing on one thing at a time.
49,A stein that removes the alcoholic content of any drink poured into it without affecting the taste. Made by a cleric to help drunkards quit the drink.
50,A wide leather belt that can project the illusion that the wearer is much fatter than they actually are. Commissioned by a couple of draft dodging neer-do-wells who thought they could avoid the service by looking as unhealthy as possible.
51,An earring that telepathically describes whatever is visible in front of the wearer. Made by a child prodigy for their blind mother who worked tirelessly in order to pay for their magical education.
52,"A long, satin coat that blows air throughout in the inner lining whenever the wearer puts both hands on the collar allowing it to dry out rather quickly when wet. Made for a seamstress that lived a particularly rainy part of the continent by her mother."
53,A wax stamp that changes insignia depending on the proximity of the nearest royal blooded individual. Made for a government worker as a promotion gift.
54,A metal wind chime a traveler carried with him that catch the faint sounds of home no matter how far he went. Distinct voices can be heard but not clearly enough to make out more than mumbled words and laughter.
55,A dark red cloak with an extra long flap in the back that will bend and stiffen into a functional chair when the wearer tries to sit down. Made for a wizard that had difficulty walking across town without breaks.
56,"A silver necklace with circular blue stone hanging on the front, makes the wearer speak much louder with no extra effort. Made for a former doctor who enjoyed his piped too often."
57,A Copper ring that lightly squeezes the wearers finger when they forget something. Made for a forgetfully librarian.
58,A deck of cards that shuffles itself when tapped twice. Made for a tavern owner so that customers wouldn't claim cheating from each other.
59,A small puzzle box that resets itself after being solved. Made for an elderly gnome to keep his mind sharp.
60,A toy top that shoots out multicolored sparks when spun. Made and a gift for a young girl.
61,A water color paint brush that changes color when dipped in different water sources. Made for a warforged who wanted to express itself artistically.
62,A tin monocle that lets the wearer see a great distance. Made by an artificer that could no longer view the beautiful landscape around his home as he aged.
63,A neck tie that soothes the throat and allows the wearer to sing/ speak for a long time without injuring themselves. Made for the apprentice of an operatic singer.
64,A green blanket that contorts to the body as though it were being embraced by a loved one. Anonymously donated to a young half orc at a nearby orphanage.
65,An alabaster quiver that makes simple wooden arrows when fed raw wood. Commissioned by a hunter to save time whittling practice arrows for his son. He later realized that he missed making arrows with his son so he sold it to buy him a proper short bow.
66,A sparkling set of needles that sew on their own after given a pattern to follow. Made by an elderly druid who wanted to streamline their winter gift making.
67,Brick colored gloves that are extremely resistant to crushing forces when worn. Made for a wall builder that was paranoid about losing a finger.
68,A small harp that plays the last song it heard when activated. Was ordered to be made by a king so that his sick could be serenaded whenever she wanted.
69,"A small dented chalice that produces a minty slurry on command once per day. A community of dwarves came to together and commissioned it. It's engraved with the phrase ""To Gutter Mouth Rodhim, For the love of the Lord use this once in a while -Everyone"""
70,An emerald ring that gives the wearer an abnormally strong sense of balance. Made for a diplomat by her husband so that when she went on long sea voyages she wouldn't get sea sick.
71,"A long feline tooth that naturally repels small, wild mammals. Made by an Elf with a phobia of rats."
72,"A 5"" by 5"" wooden cube that, when properly closed, creates a small pocket dimension inside where time doesn't flow at all. Made by a lich who used it to keep his beloved pet hamster alive over hundreds of years."
73,"A large copper orb that, when allowed to sit in a stagnant body of water, purifies and separates harmful pathogens from the water. Made as a tool for humanitarian efforts run by a brain damaged bugbear."
74,A pair of self lacing shoes. Made by an artificer for his wife who had bad back problems.
75,A sentient mouse trap that hunts and eats mice. Made for a tavern owner after their beloved cat died.
76,A copper studded head band that soothes head pain when worn. Made for an elf who suffered from chronic migraines.
77,A purple amethyst stone that projects soft purple light when the sun goes down. Made for an orphan who was afraid of the dark.
78,A glass teapot with hand shaped handles that bring water to a rolling boil almost instantly. Made for a waitress to alleviate her workload.
79,A gorilla jawbone necklace that helps your hair grow back. Made for a balding human as an anniversary gift.
80,A pair of leather sandals that allow the wearer to walk on shallow water. Made for a delivery woman who got tired of stepping in puddles on her routes.
81,An oval wicker basket with a tall handle that keeps the items placed in it secure regardless of turbulence. Made for a clumsy mailman.
82,A broom with a hickory handle that sweeps an area of 30 ft x 30 ft to the best of it's ability. Made for a tavern owner after his spouse died.
83,A tin crown that increases the confidence and self image of those who wear it. Made for a shy human boy who had trouble talking to people.
84,A bracelet with a single misshaped pearl that makes the wearer smell like an ocean breeze. Made for a Teifling dancer as a birthday gift.
85,An armband that flickers color (White to red) every time the wearer's heart beats. Made for a cleric to help keep track of an injured colleagues' condition.
86,A reflective steel circle about the size of a coin that makes it so the owner doesn't get burned from exposure. Make for a cartographer that was trying to map out a desert.
87,A fist sized snail shell that magically produces table salt when shook. Made for a gardener to keep out pests.
88,An iron lantern that dims in correlation with how awake the nearest person is. Made for a young half-Orc who liked camping outside his house.
89,An ornate paper fan that creates sweet scents whenever it's waved. Made for an aristocratic Goliath as a birthday gift.
90,A satin robe that gives a full body massage to the wearer when the waist rope is knotted. Made for a popular pit fighter for post fight treatments.
91,A patch of treated leather with studded edges that removes tattoos off of skin if pressed up against them for 10 minutes. Made for an apprentice tattoo artist that made more than one mistake.
92,A metal collar that keeps the wearers' airway clear. Made for a gnoll that had bad allergies.
93,A bronze bird medallion that gives off the sound of gentle bird whistling. Made for a Gnome after his forest home was torn torn.
94,A smooth stone made of obelisk that alleviates the pains of small burns when held. Made for a druid who was injured in a forest fire.
95,A small coin purse that cleans any jewelry put into it magically. Made for a pawn broker with not enough time on their hands.
96,"A paper crane that, when unfolded, will inscribe any words within ear shot onto itself. The words on it will remain for 5 hours or until it is folded back into a crane. Made for a deaf child so that she could better converse with her friends."
97,"A small pebble made of slate that, when pressed into someone's palm, creates a small illusion of a young child. Made by a grieving sorcerer who had lost a son."
98,A gold colored hand bell that makes those within earshot recall the last time they were charitable. Made by a paladin so that she could more easily collect donations for charity.
99,A leather bound tome that writes out motivational quips whenever it is opened. Made for a laborer with low self esteem.
100,A backpack that magically sorts everything in it to fit in as much stuff as possible. Made for a traveling merchant who was bad at packing the essentials.

d100,Entry

1,"Duster: Built to deliver goods through a massive, inhospitable desert. Duster’s metal skin is scored by years of travel, and his voice is dry and quiet. He has a fondness for animals and can be found in the company of a family of camels, who he travels with."
2,"Soot: A blacksmith’s assistant who works waist-deep in the fires of a furnace, shaping metal with his bare hands. Built of tough, black iron and covered in his namesake. Soot has a rascally sense of humor and loves heat and fire."
3,"Babble: An attempt at a mechanical jester, Babble has been relegated to life as a circus sideshow thanks to his repetitive jokes and groaning puns. He was once very fancifully decorated, and painted a faded, once-garish red and purple."
4,"Cognate: a wizard’s personal calculator and confidant, dressed in spartan robes and made of oak wood. Cognate has never spoken a word outside of its calculations and yet is the wizard’s closest friend."
5,"Sigmund: a warforged designed as a therapist for the unique psychological conditions of warforged who don't know what to do with their lives after the war. Has a... controversial theory that all warforged are secretly in love with the artificer who made them, but otherwise provides effective treatment."
6,"Wheat: built by a kindly old Dwarf Wizard who inherited a farm and needed a companion to make a proper go at farming. Used a LITTLE too much magic in their creation the dwarf was delighted to find Wheat could also summon fey spirits as helpers. The dwarf eventually passed, and now Wheat roams the countryside offering services and selling produce for coin so they can continue tending the farm until they can find the Dwarves next of kin."
7,"Hush: a small warforged made for tending to a library, they have long fingers and extending arms made for hushing library patrons and shelving books."
8,"Latch: a series of warforged made for tending entrances and opening them for travelers. they man gates, collect tolls, and give warnings of what’s on either side of the gate"
9,"CC: Surgeon. has needles, scalpel, etc. in his hands, and often tries to 'mend' his own skin, despite having none. Covered in needle scratch marks from trying to stitch these imaginary wounds."
10,Pugsy: Originally was a minor design deviation from a line of pugilist warforged. The idea was to create a non-combatant that could safely officiate the underground warforged fighting rings while dodging attacks. Pugsy was such a good referee that people began coming to her to solve their disputes. She has the voice of a domineering grandmother with no nonsense sensibilities. She has a small shop set up like a courtroom where people come to solve disputes that they don't want in an official court of law.
11,"Spout: The last remaining warforged designed to maintain a royal garden that no longer exists. Specializing in creating fountains and watering systems, she travels the world trying to find gardens that require her aid. She has extensions on her body to bend pipe, shovel to dig, and different tool extensions in her hands to deal with the nuts and bolts of building a fountain. She is also waterproof."
12,"Confessionarium Unit XVIII: a mobile church full of religious iconography and pictures, who roams the lands and visits tiny towns and hamlets who don't have access to religious services. He can preach sermons for different gods and take confessions (and could play them back to their respective priests for absolution)."
13,"Hawkeye: originally made to survey battlefields and provide some emergency care in the field. He would relay information to his commanders. Nowadays, he can be found helping a bar, mainly by making their house gin called Swamp."
14,"Diggs: a warforged of awe-inspiring industrious nature. Despite being built an absolute tank and designed for battle, some malfunction in his programming caused him to have absolutely no love for combat. He instead takes extreme and sincere enjoyment in developmental or construction work. He has had his huge host of built-in weapons he was created with swapped out for a comprehensive set of tools, including basically anything he could ever need. However, despite this, his favorite tool is his simple shovel which he usually keeps equipped as his right hand. Anytime he's not doing lucrative and masterful building work he travels from town to town- often building new roads as he goes- seeking out what the town most needs and building it pro bono."
15,"Cleanshave: a skilled barber and stylist, with integrated shaving razors, combs, and curling tongs. The copper crest on his head is shaped like an over-the-top pompadour. His personality was designed for excellent listening skills: 90% of his conversation is simply rephrasing what others say to him."
16,"Groom: this nondescript, featureless Warforged was built to tend to ferocious beasts of war and vicious monstrosities. Its constant companion is a cranium rat it befriended several years ago."
17,"Render: this adept Warforged was created to capture the life of a narcissistic noble as a court painter, creating photo-realistic masterpieces of everything, from diplomatic milestones to breakfast platters. Integrated brushes and palette reveal her intended design, as does the paint-stained apron in her satchel and the incessant quirk of doodling during every conversation."
18,"Counsel: a cheeky bartender, with all the necessary tools and gadgets for mixology integrated in its quick hands, this stylish, slender Warforged is a living repository of quotes from history's greatest philosophers and popular culture's trending bards."
19,"Moneychambers: a short, squat Warforged, with a simulated monocle and walrus mustache, his rotund belly houses an integrated coin counter and sorter. Intended for use as a traveling vault and currency exchange, a flaw emerged early on in his career: Moneychambers is an inveterate gambler."
20,"Rickshaw: a brawny servant custom-tuned for pulling a rickshaw through the city's winding streets. The athletic build and built-in sense of direction are obvious advantages for this work, but the highly polished precious metals decorating its form make it eye-catching to passing pedestrians, as well as denoting the status of its master when out on the town."
21,"Hearsay: this unassuming, diminutive Warforged is uncannily human-like, presenting as an adolescent boy with red hair and freckles. He is most commonly seen in service as a valet or page, always close by but never in the spotlight. This is quite by design: his integrated tools record conversations for later playback -- sometimes for legitimate, official purposes, but more than once for blackmail, intimidation, or deceit."
22,Bigweld: an entrepreneur and philanthropist whose company provides warforged with products ranging from everyday appliances to spare parts.
23,"Buckwheat: Incredibly proficient at farming. He has replaced one arm with a scythe for easier harvesting, despite his large, tall, intimidating appearance (considering the ever-present scythe), he literally cannot comprehend harming a living, breathing creature."
24,"Wade: was used as a fishing aid, wandering deep into the depths to retrieve traps he placed in tricky locations."
25,"Recorder: A Warforged designed to be a chronicler of knowledge. Anything from the social norms of the different species, creating maps, to anatomy of creatures, the Warforged is tasked with writing all of this down."
26,"Smokey, a warforged Forge: has a large hollow cavity in his chest abs stomach area that can be superheated with a combo of fuel and evocation magics, making it hot Enough to meat down metals which Smokey can mold with his hands and a retractable hammer into metal wares. He gets his name from the fact that while he’s working thick columns of evaporating steam pour out his mouth as internal water supplies are boiled to regulate temperature."
27,Wheelbarrow: A gardener who feels far more at home around plants and animals than with other constructs or creatures that talk back. Has several garden tool attachments.
28,"Sooty: works the forge in the village. Mostly repairs tools and warforged parts. When he closes his fists, they can function as hammers."
29,"Sultz: used to work tying ships to docks and loading cargo, but after an accident where he dell into the harbor, he likes to sell oysters and clams on the dock, far away from the water. He's a bit rusted."
30,"Takahashi, makes and sells delicious baked goods in the local market. He's only programmed to speak elvish, but anyone can order by pointing at the menu."
31,"Silt, she makes woven cloths and blankets. She's programmed to analyze the fashion value of each outfit, and that includes her customers. The needles on her hands are so precise, she can stitch a seam on your shirt while you're still wearing it."
32,TooBits: female appearing warforged with the appropriate parts to provide “services” to male and female patrons. Usually going through a full cleaning cycle during the day and often found under streetlamps at night.
33,"BlackTar: provides illicit injectables to any cash paying patron. Sets dosages correctly, unless the patron tries to dupe him, in which case he either over or underdoses depending upon the degree of the violation."
34,"G-lager: primary weapon consists of a large maul that it uses primarily to crush fruit. This results in a splash zone several yards out from the point of destruction that, while generally harmless, will strain the clothing of the unsuspecting."
35,"Leaf: one of many warforged made to blend in with the forest for such things as stopping arson, poaching, goblin surprise attacks, and other such things. Leaf and other forest warforged are usually made to look like rock, living wood, or soil and almost all are covered in moss or greenery of some kind."
36,"Tender: an automaton designed to maintain the flora and fauna of a magically protected Glade that a wizard set up as his own private 'green house'. Over time the wizard aged and died, and the wards that kept Tender at bay slowly faded the more the Glade was tended to. Eventually, the wards faded, and the scope of care Tender now realized was the entirety of the continent."
37,"Carrier: a warforged made for carrying things and people! He works both as a warehouse guard, warehouse worker, port worker, and rickshaw service."
38,"Bull: Skill in agriculture, Bull was designed to clear land for farming, as well as farm it successfully. He is a bit of a hermit, being close only to his friend Gran, and a cocker spaniel named Ruby."
39,"Gran: Skilled in masonry, carpentry, and accounting, Gran was created to establish and maintain granaries along the border regions. He is close friends with Bull. They were both sent to the region to prepare it for future habitation by citizens of the nation. Gran tends a small orchard and garden outside of her granary. She spends much time in it, canning and preserving the fruits. She wants to make sure that when the settlers finally arrive, no one will go hungry."
40,"Jack: Skilled in forestry and timber crafts, Jack travels the forest region, collecting specimens and marking trees that need to be culled. If convenient, he contacts Porter to pick up the massed timber and connects it to the barge. Jack whittles as a hobby and tends to leave carved figurines of wondrous things in his wake. Any traveler he has come across that has found one, he has rewarded with a carved figurine of their likeness."
41,"Porter: Porter lives on a steam-driven barge and travels up and down the river networks. He receives the timber culled by Jack and ships it to the coast. He plays a pipe-organ that utilizes the excess steam of the barge. Music is his main interest and in the isolation of the forests and rivers, he has created numerous beautiful compositions."
42,"Ash: built and enchanted by a circle of druids to help protect their grove of Ash wood trees. Made of wood and stone. Protected the grove faithfully even past their creators passing. Slowly gained true sentience as the years went on. Their “grove” is now part of a park in the middle of a small town. They have slowly started to explore this new environment of wood and stone, but always returns at nightfall."
43,Daisy: a landscaper for a large City. Very protective of the flower growing from their head.
44,The Mouth: probably built to be a translator for a traveling merchant. Until land pirates 'borrowed' them and decided to teach the warforged extremely rude phrases instead of the real translations.
45,"Will Smith: It is a blacksmith. One arm is a hammer, the other is a hand with the pointer finger as a blowtorch. Really good at making one particular sword, not that good at making anything else."
46,Muck: lives in the sewers of a large city. He cleans them out. Collects trinkets he finds. Assembles them into melancholy mosaics of an outside he's only glimpsed through drains and his own imagination.
47,"Hitch: A mobile hitching post that provides horses with water, oats, and salt licks. Their body rotates 360 at the waist. They have four spidery legs. Each leg can extend 5 ft. above the knee and the knees can lock in place at 90 degrees to create up to four (intersecting) hitching posts."
48,"Dresser: Originally designed as a mannequin, Dresser was given life to help design clothes with her creator. Dresser is much more humanoid than most warforged, so much so that people could confuse her for a human from a distance. However, her skin is far too perfect and flawless to be human. She loves looking her best and making everything beautiful in the world."
49,Needle: It was built specifically to sew coats of arms into soldiers' uniforms. Now he uses that skill to make and sell lovely tapestries.
50,"Flip: It was built as a one-man circus act, to entertain the other troops. He dances uncontrollably when he hears music."
51,"Paver: wanders a route throughout the city/region, only deviating to find replacement stones/bricks to maintain the roads; occasionally tells people to please stay off the grass, but otherwise doesn't interact with them"
52,"Baker: abdomen is an oven, great at keeping time, is very opinionated about the cooking done in the kitchen despite having never tasted food before"
53,"Fisher: spends the mornings fishing, the afternoons descaling its catch, and the evenings regaling the river/ocean with its fishing stories (as no one else in town will listen)"
54,"A Team of Lantern Lighters: they are spaced out and roam the highways chasing the sun, at the cusp of dusk and dawn lighting or snuffing the torches. A dark passage on the road indicates a misfortune that the others tragically will never know."
55,"Filler: a mechanical dentist. his fingers can operate as drills, Novocain syringes, and scrapers. kind-hearted but unintentionally menacing toward children as his voice is especially artificial sounding ('OPEN WIDE, LITTLE ONE.')"
56,"Bobby: Sporting a brightly burnished copper body and a custodian helmet lopsidedly fixed to a large head, Bobby is the only remaining member of ‘the Coppers’, a warforged police force built in antiquity, and the only warforged known to speak in a robotic, but unmistakably cockney, accent. Monitored and updated frequently by the city’s guild of artificers, Bobby is (generally) considered a force for good, although the laws he enforces do date from a couple of centuries ago. Standing at 8’ tall and 4’ wide, Bobby is certainly a force to be reckoned with. However, somewhere down the line (perhaps even in his original programming) Bobby gained a soft spot, particularly for children. When off duty (Sundays; non-negotiable) he can often be seen carrying street urchins’ round on his shoulders and provides them sweet treats with his 1 silver piece per week allowance. Bobby carries a large copper truncheon but is surprisingly capable at de-escalating violence. In the event of conflict, the general result is a swift crack to the head, and the dragging of the offending party to the local jail. Bobby can occasionally be seen playing back old recordings to himself, but it is unknown who or what he is watching; any attempts by the guild of artificers to read these memories have been politely but firmly rebuffed."
57,"Arbiter: one of six warforged created by ancient priests of Erathis to act as a travelling tribunal that would assist a high priest in judicial deliberations, each with a different facet of the law process e.g. archivist, advocate, critic etc."
58,Bertha: moves easily underwater due to her design. She maintains a lucrative career as a jeweler from years of pearl diving off the coast.
59,"Flap: acts as an early attempt at a warforged diplomat, but only spurts mangled platitudes and misremembered sayings. Works as an advisor for a king who mistakes these words as some deeper wisdom."
60,Horn: plays folksy tunes and strange melodies to the delight of many. His unique style comes from improvising one night after a group of envious bards crushed his fingers.
61,"Poppy: she works as an undertaker and mortician. Her work is without fault, but her bedside manner is atrocious as she speaks enthusiastically of death as aspect of her trade, rather than a tragic affair."
62,Pump: keeps the sluiceways and sewers of the city running. He curates a large collection of discarded treasures from above and takes a keen interest in the things people throw away.
63,"Judge: officiates games, duels, and tournaments of all types. His decrees are stern, but valued for their impartiality, precision, and immunity to bribes."
64,"Scratch: uses a pack of inks and built-in carving tools to create intricate tattoos. Meticulously sculpted patterns cover his limbs, and while expensive his designs are said to be works of powerful skin magic."
65,"Tamplin: works for nobility, using memorized charts and star maps to tell eerily accurate horoscopes as a travelling astrologer."
66,"Tow: patrols the local roads outside of town. Uses built in cables and her bulk to pull travelers out of the mud, while keeping an eye on the bizarre entities that call the nearby swamps home."
67,Wink: runs with a group of bandits that use her built in sleeping powder dispenser to steal from merchants as they slumber.
68,"Armsy: has 50 arms, a solid third of which are always whirring about completing various tasks while you converse with him. Chopping carrots, fixing a pocket watch, sharpening farm tools with sparks flying around the room, collecting payment, etc. Every surface of Armsy's shop is used to hang tools from pegs or serve as a staging area for complete and pending jobs. Townspeople come and go, mostly wordlessly, dropping off items with written task instructions and stacked coins as up-front payment. You don't ever really converse with Armsy. You trade handwritten notes. Armsy lacks any discernible head and never speaks. There is no empty space on Armsy that hasn't been used already to add extra arms. Some think a wizard lives inside Armsy. But that would be crazy, right?"
69,Scrape: works in the docks scraping barnacles from the underside of ships. She has a pet blue-ringed octopus.
70,"Kestle: They cut a surprisingly svelte figure, this swashbuckling Warforged. Currently a sailor offering their services on ships making short trips, they once dived for pearls before the local oysters were over-harvested and decimated by the growing pollution of the harbor."
71,"Rebexia: Throughout her life, Rebexia served as handmaiden to a series of socialites, women of status and nobility—her place in these entourages granting her ladies the glow of novelty. But sharp, perceptive and in possession of the faculty of total recall, Rebexia is an asset to her employers if they are smart enough to recognize it and a powerful force behind the scenes in her own right."
72,"Gamma: this warforged pays little attention to the party and continues their work, Gamma’s task is to plant a forest as a last wish of a woman, to see the plains full of trees again before they were all cut down to make machinations of war (trebuchet, catapults, siege towers). Gamma has spent at least a decade planting trees and maintaining them for optimum growth, bringing life back to a place that was full of so much death."
73,"Steambreather: previously a factory worker, after an unfortune accident his right arm was replaced with an oversized heavy lifting arm. When he's not making forgings, you can find him in the tavern taking part arm wrestling competitions. He has a fierce rivalry with an orc, Bloodtusker, in the city and they are known for stalemate matches that can last for hours, Bloodtuskers brow sweating in frustration as Steambreather spews clouds of fog as he strains."
74,"Quill: a scribe and scholar built to collect lore, obsessed with finding a famous hidden library filled to the brim with forgotten secrets."
75,"Tapper: a bartender who DESPERATELY wants to find an alcoholic beverage potent enough to get his metal ass wasted. So far, no such luck."
76,Keys: a pianist who plays “The Entertainer” on repeat in a sleepy saloon. It gets pretty irritating after a while.
77,"Anvil: a blessing for the small town that he lives in; created to serve Moradin long ago, he is now the blacksmith. He never sleeps and he doesn’t eat, so all of the small repairs the village needs are free of charge. He’s happy to simply create things that help others.... but he dreams of making a weapon worthy of Moradin."
78,"Mind: an experiment in how much of a soul can you truly give a warforged. It has psionics, and a high amount of empathy. It wishes that it could have children and a family like the other humanoids it knows."
79,Annie: A nanny who has been with the family for generations. Frequent sayings might be 'You're exactly like your great uncle so and so' or 'Your grandmother would severely disapprove were she still with us'
80,Hammer: his right arm can become a set of different sized hammers. From small construction hammers to war hammers. He does construction and security. He takes his weekends off seriously and talks in a mob accent addressing all his superiors as 'boss' with the drawn out 'o'.
81,"Miner: Though solidly built and having a pick affixed to one arm, this warforged is more useful digging for iron than trying to kill. Send him into the mines and watch your ore output increase."
82,Lumberjack: Comes with an axe fixed to his arm but is better suited to turning trees into lumber than turning orcs into corpses.
83,"Halitus: Latin for ‘breath’ or one’s last breath, since he was an evil sorcerer’s killing machine, living in the sorcerer’s dark and damp cellar. A “Bring out the gimp” ordeal. Played him as a runaway assassin/hexblade."
84,"Dent: A warforged designed to make armor and weapons for a religious order of knights. With broad shoulders and a tall frame, he’s efficient at forging larger, heavier weapons and armor."
85,"Quar: A custom unit designed for the Kings head of research into biological weapons. It features a rotating set of compartments of various sizes in its torso, designed to hold anything from tissue samples to disease-carrying rodents to amputated limbs."
86,"Censer: A gift to the church, this unit was designed to hold open heavy religious texts during services, refill oil lamps, and to burn incense, the smoke from which was dispersed through specially designed vents in its body."
87,"Dungheap: Equipped with a shovel blade, Dungheap tirelessly scrapes the dung, offal and carrion off the city streets and into the metal lined waste wagon to be hauled to the trash burning pits. When he finishes his assigned roads, he goes to the lords stable and scrapes the horse manure from the stables. Endlessly shoveling shit. A large city might employ a squad or more of this model."
88,"Hoss: A quadruped model with a horse shaped head, Hoss may not have the overland speed of a horse but has superior traction on steep up-slopes and he never fatigues, so Hoss has replaced equines in some cargo-hauling areas."
89,"Adyan: Constructed by a wealthy family to be a bodyguard and servant for the only child. As the child grew, she and Adyan became friends, and Adyan took on a more prominent role as her lab assistant as she pursued interests in herbalism and alchemical healing. Adyan serves her happily today, even now, in her old age."
90,"Auto: an envoy designed to transform into a hovercycle created as a personal transportation device for wealthy heirs with a need for speed. Built as a companion, their personality is a one of a people pleaser, constantly saying whatever they believe their companion wants to hear."
91,"Crane specializes in building tall buildings. Its hands and feet end in thin but strong claws, designed for inserting between stones to climb sheer walls. A large reel of rope and a hook on its back allow building materials to be winched into place."
92,"Piledriver was designed to carry and lay foundations for buildings. Standing at twelve feet tall, two of its hands are massive claws which can pick up entire tree-trunks, and the other two arms ends in blunt hammers to pound them into the ground."
93,"Hands: a six-armed materials handler for magical experiments. Due to years of standing close to wild magical effects, it glows brightly, with different parts of its hull giving off differently colored light. Occasionally, very minor magical effects happen around it, such as clothing fading or changing color, turnips changing into onions, or tiny fireworks going off."
94,"Tannoy: a Warforged who was built for a vain king with a speech impediment, now long dead. Its purpose was to allow the king to speak in a dignified manner at public events. It can shout loud enough to temporarily deafen anybody nearby but prefers to speak in a whisper."
95,"Elevator: Designed for an up-and-coming rival city to Sharn which wanted to build tall buildings but didn't have access to Sharn's flight-granting manifest zone. Elevator carries a large basket on its back and can climb ladders at an amazing speed. When the rival city was abandoned, Elevator migrated to a small clifftop town, where it carries fishermen and beach-pickers up and down the cliffs."
96,"Pump, a Warforged firefighter: Carries large reels of hose on its back, and a sledgehammer and fire axe to smash through burning buildings. Inside its chest is a fireproof chamber with enough space for one person."
97,"Keystone: Spends its days in a quarry, making intricate stonework. With the nearby city levelled centuries ago, there is no more demand for stone, so Keystone hauls the stones up to the edge of the quarry every night and has built a large town's worth of beautiful stone dwellings, monuments, and bridges."
98,"Mud and Nightsoil work at a nearby riverbank. Mud creates and fires bricks from the local clay, and Nightsoil hauls them into a nearby sewer entrance. Each of the empty dwellings in Keystone's town has access to sewerage thanks to Nightsoil's extensive brick-built sewer network, running with clean fresh water from a nearby mountain lake. Some of the sewer tunnels expand into cisterns and reservoirs or small natural caves, while others have walls paneled with scenes of everyday town life chiseled into the brickwork."
99,"Smithy: Created during the war as an armorer and field repair Artificer, assigned to a company of dwarves. After the treaty that granted all Warforged their freedom, he continued working under the senior officer as a blacksmith, among many other trades. In armor smithing he was especially gifted, being considered a master craftsman even by the children of Moradin. The years went by and he learned more than smithing from the stout-folk. Eventually he decided to dedicate his life to pleasing Moradin with his skills, offering help to anyone in need of either his tools or his Warhammer; all while speaking the blessings of the forge."
100,"Archie: He's a Warforged Archivist with a suite of pens and an ink reservoir integrated into his arm, and a Keen Mind to accurately recall the exact events he witnesses until he has enough time to record them."

d100,Entry

1,This elf wears an amulet that has been passed down in their family for generations. They are never seen without it.
2,This elf wears flowing robes that look as if they're made out of specks of pure starlight.
3,"This Elf keeps in his or her pocket a tattered scrap of canvas with a faded portrait painted on it -- a human lover, long dead but still not forgotten."
4,"A cloak that follows the seasons: Its color is bright green in Spring, a darker green in Summer, red and orange in Fall, and brown in Winter. It gradually turns gray if not exposed to sunlight."
5,"This Elf wears a flowing cloak that appears almost as a pure silvery mist. In this rainy weather, had they not introduced themselves, you might not have even noticed them there."
6,This elf is wearing Elven ear clasps made of spun silver.
7,This elf is wearing a single left earring made of shiny blue metal.
8,This elf is wearing a remarkably thin brass choker with a single pearl.
9,This elf is wearing a dull green half cloak cape with golden trim.
10,This elf is wearing an engraved leather archery bracer.
11,"This elf is wearing a pair of boots; it's surface mimicking the bark of the surrounding trees, but the elf moves soundlessly through the leaves."
12,"This Elf is wearing luscious green and blue robes that flow past their feet, turning into a small river as it touches the ground. Great for leaving an impression, not good for indoor parties."
13,"This Elf is wearing a ring that shines a light upward. Casts 'Light' on a flat surface. When pointed to the night sky, it will blink when you're pointing it to the North Star."
14,"This Elf is wearing a hairpin that weighs 1 pound, is positively extravagant, made of gold and rubies. It takes an hour to apply to only the smoothest hair and worn by the highest of elves."
15,This Elf is wearing a parasol that shines moonlight over the carrier during the night.
16,This Elf is wearing earrings that become temporarily brighter when they hear laughter.
17,This elf wears a sash that has a glowing white thread woven into it that spells out a message in the dark.
18,"This Elf wears a brooch that has been made by weaving metal strands to make a tiny quilt. Compared to other pieces it lacks the petite and lightness of elven jewelry, but it has history that dates it back to the high priestess Shanjura and her council of Bantor'in."
19,This Elf wears a collar made out of woven tree twigs.
20,"This Elf wears a flowing cape that is so light, it floats and levitates when there is no wind whatsoever."
21,This Elf wears socks that become warmer at higher altitudes.
22,"It is traditional for elves to incorporate some aspect of nature into their wardrobe. While most elves use this to make themselves look elegant, this particular elf has turned a section of a cactus into shoulder pads in order to look more intimidating."
23,"This sea elf’s hardy sea cloak gives it the aspect of a great octopus. The baggy hood appears like an octopus mantle; the cloak resembles the rubbery webbing between an octopus’s arms, and the corners of the cloak have tentacle-like tassels. When out at sea, fellow sailors swear they see out of the corner of their eyes the cloak waving and dancing as if underwater."
24,The gossamer ends of this elf’s shimmering shawl drape from her shoulders like dragonfly wings.
25,"This whole elven village wears the same simple, woven sandals. Upon further examination, each sandal is fashioned from a single long, forked leaf: when the leaves fall, their leafstalks curl up, forming the signature curled toes of these sandals, while the forked ends wrap up the calf."
26,"This elven arch druid wears a long, slender belt made of living, flowering vine."
27,"This Drow elf matron wears expensive, white gloves woven from finest spider silk."
28,"This elf noble wears an ornate silver ear cuff in the fashion of an orchid, spiraling around their graceful ear."
29,"This wood elf’s ombre-dyed liripipe hood reminds people of a great hunting cat, as its tail winds and flicks with a mind of its own."
30,"This rustic tunic betrays its elven craft as its appearance shifts over the length of the year: its bright hue in summer dulls as its length grows in the fall; sleeves and a hood fill in before winter, only to shed away come spring."
31,"This paladin elf’s long, copper-hued tabard is emblazoned with oak leaf motifs and acorns."
32,"This troop of elven rangers wears matching leather armor, the overlapping plates of which resemble the seed scales of giant pinecones."
33,"The substantial clasps of this asymmetrical Drow mantle, when closed, complete a large, adamantine spider, which appears to rest on the wearer’s shoulder, its segmented legs clutching across the chest and back."
34,"The elven druid is wearing carved, wooden bangles around her ankles. The bands can be seen in her animal forms, as well."
35,"This high elven circlet is braided mithril with a single teardrop garnet in its center. It is ancient; a relic of a historic elven kingdom, and it is believed to bear the collected wisdom of each of the successive kings in the great elven dynasty."
36,"The lenses of these elven goggles are polished pink crystal, which reveal fey presence with motes of multi-colored lights."
37,"This elven fighter’s leather girdle, with matching sword hangers and custom scabbards, is stamped all over with knot work antlers and grapevines. It bears a maker’s mark, which the elf often points out to admiring commenters, as the successful leatherworker is also a generous patron of the fighter."
38,"The dappled, dark shades of this sturdy piwafwi shift and ripple, making it seem as if the wearer is traveling under heavy foliage, even when standing still."
39,"The elven ranger wears a white leather hawking gauntlet, embroidered to resemble a bird’s wing."
40,"This assassin was wearing a large velvet pouch around her neck, hidden under her clothes: it carried a Drow house insignia — an elongated spider stylized to look like a dagger, its legs crossing to form the house glyph."
41,"This costly dress’s panels are stitched with veining that mimics either the veins of a leaf, or the veins of a feather, depending on the wearer’s whim. When the dress is seen outside, it appears as if sunlight is shining through the veining from within, magically enhancing the effect."
42,"The elf maiden’s fine silver chain necklace hangs down to the small of her back, where a long strand of seven emeralds shines."
43,"The wild elf’s “breastplate” — if that’s what it is — is just a large section of tree bark, held in place with leather cording."
44,"These modest traveling clothes are tailored tight to the neck, limbs, and torso, and flare out around the middle, giving the wearer an insectoid appearance."
45,These elegant slippers are whittled from blocks of black pine and lined with soft fur.
46,"The young elf’s skirt mimics a giant rose blossom: its many overlapping, soft panels look like downturned petals opening voluminously at the knee."
47,The noble’s wide ruff is daringly cut to look like a thistle blossom.
48,"The current fashion for elven ponchos in this city is long strands all over, resembling weeping willow or wisteria or ivy vines."
49,The elf’s bracelet is carved from a single moss agate.
50,"This elven caplet is sewn of bright tints of blue and gray and white, swirling in wave-like circles."
51,"This long, diaphanous, red veil shimmers with crushed amber shards, dancing like sultry flames whenever its mistress breathes or moves."
52,"This merchant’s black silk brocade jerkin is cut in the elven fashion, clinging closely to the figure with skirts draping almost to the knee. The jerkin is embroidered all over with tiny, precise, golden sunbursts."
53,"All the cloaks in this elf's shop have colorfully hemmed slits in their hoods. This seems impractical for keeping out the elements; but, then again, they are intended for the elves' long ears."
54,This jeweled hair comb resembles a great horned owl: its golden topaz eyes appear to wink under moonlight.
55,"These trousers are almost entirely made of patches and stitches, having been kept in service long past their time. The long-lived elf commoner who wears them considers them his lucky pants."
56,"This elongated, angular mask is for masquerade balls: it features a large pair of velveteen antlers and a crown of lustrous ivy."
57,"This elven headdress bears a coral crown, is strung with fine pearl strands, and is draped with sheer silk the color of sea foam."
58,This dashing elf's wide-brimmed hat bears a dazzling feather: he insists it was a gift from a phoenix. His friends tease him that it’s merely an imitation.
59,The metallic buttons running down the length of this elf woman's fitted gown are carved from a gold dragon's shed scales.
60,The opalescent sheen of these elven leggings could only have been achieved by a magical seamstress.
61,"The elven fashion here is quite modest, recognized for its high collars and long skirts. Far from restrained, however, the clothing gives an impression of airy freedom: the flowing skirts, wide trousers, bell sleeves, and loose layers are typically sewn from lightweight linens and silks, dyed in soft neutrals and pastels, and worn with casual nonchalance."
62,"This silk fan entertains both holder and onlookers as it flutters: the fan's animated images show a flowering tree's blossoms first budding, then blooming, then blowing away in a breeze. The holder is magically refreshed by the slight, fragrant gusts that come from this accessory."
63,"This sea elf mercenary wears a close-fitting bodysuit resembling sharkskin: multitudes of overlapping tooth-like, artificial scales cover the body from the neck down."
64,"Black leather armbands wind wickedly around the drow's arms and torso. Small slits in the leather store discreet vials of poison, needle-like blades, and other trinkets."
65,This age-old archery bracer is made of dragon bone and embellished with a large moonstone. The protective article also has fitted slots holding spare arrows for rapid drawing.
66,"This long, sleeveless surcoat is covered in the holy symbols of the elven pantheon, embroidered with threads of precious metals. The garment is intended for ceremonial wear by the highest clerics. Stoles of four different colors accompany the garment, corresponding to the four seasons."
67,"The standard livery for the servants of this noble elven house are silver, blue, and green, behind a rampant unicorn. The finely made knee-length tunics and wide trousers make no noise as the staff move about the large, atmospheric manor."
68,"The elf's belt pouch is a length of bamboo worn horizontally on the belt. The segmented cane has three fastened openings, and each compartment is lined with padded wool to keep the contents from rattling."
69,"This dark-skinned elf merchant wears a red silk turban, embroidered with a winding, golden, two-headed snake, and decorated with a golden brooch set with a large onyx stone. His ears emerge from the turban through its folds, and long golden bar earrings hang from his ears."
70,"This wood elf's rucksack is the treated husk of a giant seedpod, fitted with leather strap hinges and closed with buckled leather straps. The long, organic vessel is hard-sided and durable, with naturally formed compartments inside."
71,"This high elf draws his fine, angular robes closed with a wide band, tied behind him in a crisp, elaborate knot. Obviously, he has had years and years to perfect his fastidious appearance."
72,"The elf barbarian wears a decorative gorget around her neck, made of painted porcupine quills. A single bear claw hangs down from the center of the front."
73,This wild elf doesn't wear her backpack: she pulls it behind her on a leash. It's a deep reed basket held aloft cleverly by the spinning blades of a large wind leaf plant.
74,"This elf’s pointed hunting cap is especially elongated, visually mirroring the elf’s elongated, pointed ears. It’s black, and the brim is pinned on one side with a tourmaline brooch, holding an iridescent peryton feather."
75,"This light linen traveling smock is tailored for a long, slender frame, and embroidered sweetly with a pattern of chained wildflowers along the hem."
76,The high elf’s workaday leather tunic is drawn closed at the neck with antler toggles. The long tunic is slit at the sides to mid-thigh for free movement.
77,"The indigo silk purse belongs to a high elf lady, intricately crusted with diamonds and sapphires in the pattern of the constellations."
78,This brawny elf’s dull steel spaulders rest over its leaf-like scale mail: the armor plates over his shoulders have been forged artfully to resemble snarling wolf heads.
79,"This elegant coronet is a fine band of copper, with copper work wings fanning out from the temples, above the ears. A miniature copper hawk’s head, with small ruby eyes, rests over the brow."
80,"These fur-lined boots belonged to an elf from mountain terrain or wintry climes. Economically, the soles, hide, and soft inner fur all came from an Owlbear, and its large foreclaws were used as the toggles."
81,"These soft-soled shoes have a gracefully rounded toe, rather than pointed, and leave no sound or print when traveling through the wilderness."
82,"This elven hermit carries a long, heavy staff carved all over with miniscule wizened faces, all smiling in a cheery, friendly manner. When asked, the tinker has a name for each face, and says they are the faces of his treant friends he’s made as he wanders the ancient wood. They protect him on his way."
83,"The elven sprinters in this rainforest wear springy wooden running stilts, designed and crafted to help them vault through the dense wood delivering messages or fleeing predators. The races they hold each summer are watched from high up in the foliage, where onlookers can see the swift, brief contests best."
84,"This shining baldric seems to be woven from threads of steel, a skill only the finest of elven smiths have accomplished. Its peculiarly angled hanger is designed to carry an elven longsword."
85,"These heeled ankle boots have a wide sequined cuff resembling fish scales, reflecting the slightest light in watery, rippling patterns on the ground around them."
86,"The elf soldier wears studded red leather greaves that come up over his knees, clinging tightly to the calf. There are no visible closures or bindings on the armor. The red leather is artfully burned with the pattern of twining vines: when the soldier doffs his armor, he whispers a command in elvish, which awakens the vines and relaxes them, allowing the greaves to slip off easily and quickly. To don them, he whispers the same command, and the vines tighten and recess into the leather once again."
87,This elf wears a cloak that seems to be made of living plant matter.
88,"The moon elf scholars wear layered velvet and silk robes with a broad pallium wrapped around the neck and over the shoulder. This ceremonial scarf is hung with several silk cords, each a different color, variously strung with copper, silver, and gold beads, or simply knotted in an obviously significant way, each ending in a small stamped talisman bearing the sigil for a specific academic discipline or arcane tradition. Everyone in the community recognizes the prestige and acumen of awarded scholars by these colorful medals."
89,"A trio of prismatic gemstones float over this sun elf’s haughty brow, refracting light all around."
90,"This leather shrug, or bolero jacket, is a rakish red color with copper fastenings. The shoulders and sleeves are specifically tailored and reinforced to protect the wood elf archer and facilitate his archery."
91,The elderly wood elves wear rich kaftans embroidered lavishly with the heraldry flora and fauna of their houses.
92,"The sea elves tend to wear minimal clothing, but the adolescents of this seaside settlement enjoy expressing their emerging individualities by wearing short dresses, long tunics, and leggings of intricately woven kelp and sea grasses. The adolescents enjoy looking for the most wildly colored varieties of seaweed to wear: violet-red, chartreuse, puce, and cyan."
93,"This sea elf is wearing incredibly delicate chain adornments around the crown of the head, the waist, and the webbed feet, but notably not the neck: their gills need to remain unimpeded."
94,The Drow male is wearing dangerously pointed epaulets that sweep upward. The visual effect is quite menacing.
95,"The small, octagonal, silver jewelry box is full of long, sinister-looking hairpins. Each pin has two long, pointed tines joined under a spidery setting holding a single, polished, perfectly round Underdark pearl: a naturally phosphorescent semi-precious stone known for protecting against scrying and mind-reading."
96,"This elven hunting case holds a horn, made of lacquered birch bark with antler and rawhide fittings, and several carved wooden hunting calls, each delicately whittled to resemble the head of the animal or monstrosity it mimics."
97,"The elven quiver resembles the trumpet blossom of a giant calla lily. Worn at the hip, the soft leather magazine's curling, flared opening allows the archer to draw ammunition quickly and freely. Also, the 'pollen' within the quiver enchants the archer's arrows with a naturally-derived soporific: any creature hit by an arrow drawn from this quiver must make a Constitution save to shake off an enchanted sleep."
98,"This elf wears a pair of golden eagle earrings passed on to her from her great, great grand mother. Rumor has it they were once imbued with powerful nature magic."
99,"The elf has thick dreads tied together with flowery vines, hanging down past his/her shoulders. The vines grow into and out of the hair, and covers it with spore that seem to twinkle with the light."
100,"This elf wears a belt and bracers of palm-sized, thick leaves, which have been alchemically treated and waxed until they are strong and supple as leather. Bound stems, similarly treated, link each leaf in a flowing, knot work pattern of emerald green and brassy gold."

d100,Entry

1,The aasimar causes flowers to bloom when they are near.
2,Babies stop crying when you get close.
3,You shine slightly when you are in combat.
4,People with the same alignment feel good near you.
5,Peoples allergies clear up near you.
6,Religious individuals seem drawn to you.
7,People with dark secrets feel faintly guilty around you.
8,Lost children often find their way to you.
9,People with traces of fiend blood start sneezing around you.
10,Hostile animals always hesitate before striking you.
11,Impurities in water clear up when you touch it.
12,When you sing a hymn a faint chorus joins you on the wind.
13,At sunrise you are surrounded by a brief translucent halo.
14,Striking you for the first time on a holy day causes a distant rumble of ominous thunder.
15,People who cheat in your presence get caught more easily.
16,Young children insist you're an angel to anyone who'll listen.
17,Three random minor miracles occur to other people every time you visit a different community.
18,Pregnant women you touch are guaranteed a healthy birth without defects.
19,"Blind people can see you, but only as a humanoid shape made of light."
20,"Once a month a near fatal accident will occur in your presence, but everyone involved will be miraculoualy unharmed."
21,You hear any sincere prayers within 300 feet of you as a gentle whisper.
22,If you hold an infant there is no force in the multiverse that can harm it while you live.
23,People tend to choke on their words in your presence if they make an intentionally mean and blasphemous statement or joke - this includes you too.
24,If you say a prayer over someone's grave you get a general sense for what plane their soul has departed.
25,When someone dies in your presence you can actually see their soul departing or being dragged into another plane.
26,"For your shadow, the area is lighter instead of darker."
27,Celestial runes glow randomly across your body.
28,"You have a peaceful, angelic presence around you, anyone close enough feels at ease and happy."
29,"If you receive chain letters, the people who sent it to you do find true love."
30,Your footsteps glow slightly behind you.
31,Dust does not settle on items you have touched or places you have sat.
32,You have never been bitten by a mosquito or a tick.
33,You can turn water into wine by breathing over it.
34,While you sleep a faint sound of music can be heard.
35,Skin glitters in the dark.
36,Food tastes better around you.
37,"Desecrated places feel hot under your feet, desecrated items are hot to the touch."
38,Tavern keepers break open their best stock whenever you enter their establishment.
39,"Your hair appears as if gravity has no effect on it, causing it to wave freely."
40,You can detect someone's current alignment by shaking their hand.
41,People who touch you get a vision of their death (or a possible scenario).
42,Your irises slightly brighten in color when in a place of worship.
43,You have no natural body hair.
44,Rain seems to run off you without actually soaking you or any items you wear.
45,You have a distinct lock of silver hair on your head.
46,Your body is minorly reflective.
47,"There is a small bird that always follows you but never approaches, filling the area with distant chirping."
48,The individual sometimes leaves angelic feathers where they have sat down.
49,"The individual sometimes seems to have a halo above their heads, floating just out of sight."
50,The individual is abhorrent to all forms of undead.
51,The individual radiates dim light in a 30 foot radius.
52,"Whenever the individual wears a cape, it will billow majestically as if caught in a wind."
53,"When the aasimar draws her weapon against a wicked foe, it ripples with light as if moments from being set aflame. If the aasimar is a sneaky sort, reflections of a tremendous shadowy thunderhead appear instead. Clashing weapons or shields with an ideological opponent causes the aasimar's weapons and gear to throw a torrent of sparks."
54,The aasimar never makes misspellings or simple grammatical mistakes in her writing ever. Her handwriting is swift yet flawless. Even the aasimar's signature is charismatic.
55,"The aasimar can instinctively tell if a written contract presented to her has deceptive intent. The aasimar notices the overall malice of the author hiding within the handwriting and parchment, but the aasimar must use her own wits to discover the precise catch."
56,"When the aasimar concentrates on a small cloud for a long time, it slowly shapes itself into a rough impression of what the aasimar desires. (Cannot be used for skywriting, the precision is too demanding.)"
57,"The aasimar has a knack with much loved heirlooms. The rust on heirloom armor simply flakes off with a little care, grandpa's broken clock starts running again with a little tinkering, and a child's ripped stuffed animal practically sews itself together."
58,"If the aasimar takes ten minutes to attune to a location where a worship service was held in the past day and night, she can hear pieces of the worship service that took place. This sense works even when the aasimar is deaf."
59,"The aasimar always includes a little mud or spit in her medical care. The healing doesn't work as well when the aasimar leaves them out, but the recipes don't perform when other people try to make them."
60,His/Her blood gives advantage to driving out demons from possessed people. It gives off a light smoking effect and visible pain by both parties.
61,They are constantly followed by a pair of mourning doves that occasionally drop berries in front of them.
62,Any silk cloth they wear for a day makes it nearly impossible to be zombified when used as a burial shroud.
63,"If they sneeze into a pure white handkerchief, they can open it to release a dove, who flies away. Sneezing into a normal handkerchief turns it pure white"
64,"If they focus, their ears are able to hear any prayer or cry for help in 100 feet, no matter the sound level or other distraction."
65,"They cry tears of blood, which paradoxically cleans any object used to wipe them away."
66,"On sunny days, they sparkle a little in the light, as if they had been dusted with glitter"
67,"People who sleep near the aasimar find that they sleep more restfully and contentedly than they have in a long, long time."
68,"Jokes they tell are just funny. No explaining it. Even the worst, most unfunny joke told by the aasimar is met by a wry chuckle."
69,"If they touch the face of a dying enemy, they get advantage on checks made to convince them to release the information the aasimar seeks."
70,"Once per day, re-roll a failed ranged attack made against an enemy - the projectile has inexplicably bounced off of nearby objects to strike the enemy from behind!"
71,"They can attune to an object to make it hum an accompanying melody to a song of their choosing, with a range of 30 feet."
72,"If they trip or stumble, they always find something interesting on the ground in front of their face - a gold coin, a perfectly round stone, a piece of wood that kind of looks like a religious figure."
73,"The aasimar can sleep under blankets comfortably even on the hottest, must humid evenings."
74,"They've never lost a thumb war, and can always guess how many fingers you're hiding behind your back."
75,"People nearby the aasimar can now detect untraceable poisons in their food, with just enough time to react."
76,"Dirt, grime, and sludge is wicked away from their clothing."
77,Their touch can relieve the elderly of their aches and pains for a week
78,Criticisms and observations made by the aasimar convince the target of the comments to turn their life around and improve their situations.
79,"Light always reflects in a way that makes them appear as if they are standing in a column of heavenly light, even if the reflections are not logical."
80,"Their teeth are always pearly white, and never fall out. Their baby teeth grow as the rest of them does, and they always fall perfectly into place throughout the growth process."
81,Dirt and debris seem to be physically incapable of sticking to their body. Coming into contact with anything of the sort results in the offending material sliding right off of them.
82,"When in love, a faintly colored glow hangs in the air around them and gently reaches out towards the object of their affections whenever they are nearby. The exact color of the glow is unique to the individual aasimar."
83,"Whenever they feel indignant, righteous, or justified, the faint pounding of drums can be heard echoing around the minds of all those nearby. The speed and intensity of the drumming increases with the strength of their passion."
84,"When someone of the opposite gender approaches an Aasimar, they get ""hot under the collar"" and are more likely to do things for them."
85,"Depending on their ancestry, an Aasimar's general appearance will be vastly different from another. If they're a descended of a Celestial or other holy being that was related/associated with the sun, then their body might give off a soft glow at night, their iris may look like an actual sun slowly revolving, and/or they have a greater affinity to heat."
86,An Aasimar may have two vertical lines going down their back near their shoulder blades as if there use to be wings there.
87,If an Aasimar lays under an old tree that tree will become more vibrant and alive as well as being able to bear fruit after the Aasimar leaves.
88,Aasimar and Tieflings can sense one another within 200 ft of one another.
89,"The weather always seems to reflect the mood you're in that day. It'always sunny when you're happy; raining when you're sad; and when you're angry, there have been horrific storms"
90,The smell of freshly baked bread follows you wherever you go.
91,Inexplicable memory for things that happened years before their birth.
92,Innately knows the spell calm emotions and can use it once per day.
93,Always knows the direction and distance to the nearest place of worship.
94,"They cannot get drunk, and all alcohol tastes vile to them."
95,Any string instrument they play is instantly tuned to perfection.
96,"When they sing, it sounds like a hundred voices singing in perfect harmony."
97,"You dream of a wonderful, serene place whenever you sleep. If someone sleeps nearby or with you, they join you there."
98,"If you ask a direct and honest question, people are made visibly uncomfortable by telling you a lie or hearing one being told."
99,"Your finger nails mend and clean the things they scratch, can’t break, and are always just the right length for you."
100,"You are not truly an Aasimar, just a common human who has deluded themselves into believing they are. Any magical aasimar traits you use are just you subconsciously casting spells."

d100,Entry

1,Calm winds and clear skies make for perfect flying conditions and an enjoyable flight.
2,A light breeze blows across your flight path but doesn't affect your ability to stay aloft.
3,Strong headwind makes flight more difficult and slower.
4,An overcast sky of impermeable cloud cover limits your vision.
5,Freezing Rain brings cold temperatures that chill you to bone. Extended flight in these wet conditions lead to ice accumulation on you or vessel. This increased weight make it more difficult to stay aloft.
6,"Thunderstorms ahead: a large thunderhead looms in front of your path, the cloud racked with streaks of lightening."
7,Thermals or rising bodies of air cause you to rise and fall erratically. A DC 15 check is needed to maintain control.
8,"A strong wind to your back drives you forward, allowing you to travel further."
9,A persistent fog blocks your view of the ground.
10,A hurricane is visible on the horizon but you cannot determine the full size of this storm. Strong winds & rain clouds swirl around a calm center. Turbulence herald its approach.
11,"A micro-burst is a localized column of sinking air (downdraft) within a thunderstorm and is usually less than or equal to 2.5 miles in diameter. Wind suddenly pushes you towards the ground. If flying at low altitude, a DC 15 check is needed to keep from crashing into the ground."
12,"Your flight takes your through a light snow flurry, the snowflakes gently falling or carried by a faint breeze."
13,"Your flight takes your through a moderate snowstorm, the snowflakes being driven by a biting wind."
14,Your flight takes your through a heavy snowstorm. Driving snow and strong winds makes flight difficult and keeping warm even harder.
15,Your flight takes your through a blizzard. The deluge of snow and driving winds leave makes travel in these whiteout conditions extremely difficult to potentially life threatening.
16,A swarm of birds or small creatures approaching.
17,Swarm of insects approaching.
18,"Approaching dust storms begin to become thicker and thicker. Visibility reduced severely (I use a max of 20 ft, 40 ft if wearing eye protection), if severe dust storm: take 1d2 bludgeoning damage a round if not in cover for 10 rounds, then the damage switches to 1d4 for 10 rounds, then 1d6 for 10 rounds."
19,"Reverse Thunderstorms are made of clouds of black that release black lightning that have no ordinary thunder crack. Instead the lightening is accompanied with a building high pitched whine and then complete silence as the lightning devours sound. Mutes all creatures during a lightning strike in 1 mile of thunder, non-magical sources of light that produce bright are now dim, dim is now darkness in proximity to storm."
20,"Anti Thunderstorm generates large flashes of darkness that randomly plunge sections of the map into darkness, with high pitch screeches when lightning strikes. Blinds all creatures (via darkness) if near darkness when lightning strikes, leaves residual clouds of darkness on ground during strikes."
21,"Hail begins to fall. Ranging from light, medium, heavy: Light: no damage, distracting: disadvantage on perception, insight and investigation rolls if not under cover. Medium: 1d2 bludgeoning damage every round not under cover, Distracting: same as above Heavy: 1d6 bludgeoning damage every round not under cover, Distracting: Same as above."
22,"Volcanic Ash dusts the area like falling snow. The ash causes 1d4 poison damage every round if inhaled, if inhaled for 3 rounds in a row, suffer the poison condition for 1 hour. Add one hour for each round after 3. (8 rounds inhaled = 6 hours)"
23,Updraft results in flying creatures being able to move 10ft more upwards and 10ft less downwards.
24,It’s raining men.
25,It’s raining cats and dogs.
26,It’s raining fish.
27,Plague of frogs rains down from above.
28,Fire and brimstone falls from the sky.
29,A pod of dolphins swims by and only then do you realize that you've already crashed into the ocean. Strangely you are able to continue flying as if you were still aloft.
30,The air around you begins to acts like a mildly turbulent sea. A pod of cloud dolphins bound between the wispy clouds. They follow you playfully for a time.
31,A thick purple to violet haze begins to roll in. Those within the purple haze (both mount and rider if they are not constructs) are under the effect of an indigo Prismatic Spray and must roll a save for each minute/hour that they remain within the haze or else become petrified. Airships and other vehicles begin to form a crust of stone on their surfaces and must be cleaned constantly to avoid becoming too heavy.
32,"A pair of dragons are fighting, or it looks like they're fighting. You will need to dodge the crossfire. Various environmental effects can also impact you depending on the age and type of dragon."
33,Hot Hale' falls around you as meteorites or volcanic rocks rain from the sky. Usually burn up before hitting the ground.
34,"The top of the storm clouds give way to a large whirlpool-like vortex, the top of a tornado ravaging the group below. Strong swirling winds pull you ever closer..."
35,Auroras provide a memorizing show of vibrant dancing colors against a clear sky.
36,Glowing orbs of ball lightning fly through the air randomly. Occasional arcs of lightening lash out from the orb into it surroundings. Coming in contact with an orbs results in 3d6 electricity/lightening damage with a dexterity save for half.
37,Cloud tunnels appear as clear vertical shafts of calm air surrounded by a spinning tunnel of spiraling air (appear like a sideways tornado or the time vortex on Doctor Who). A safe passage if you stay away from the sides but limits your route.
38,"A Mana Storm comprised of magically charged clouds make flight unstable. For every hour of flight by magical means, roll a d20. If the result is 3 or less, the spell fails, returning in 1 hour. If the result is 18 or greater, the spell is boosted, and the flying speed doubles for the rest of the hour. Captains of magical airships will not fly in a mana storm, and a wise mage will have Feather Fall prepared."
39,A magical vacuum develops within your vicinity leaving you and anything else in the area in free fall and without any means to breathe.
40,Your flight takes your through a light rain shower carried by a gentle breeze.
41,Your flight takes your through a moderate rain shower.
42,Your flight takes your through a heavy rain shower. Heavy squalls of rain fall as curtains in between bouts of lighter rain.
43,Your flight takes your through a torrential downpour. Driving winds and nearly zero visibility put any flights at risk of being carried off course.
44,A rain shower that has minor healing properties. Living creatures exposed feel invigorated as exhaustion and injuries are healed.
45,"A gravitational anomaly occurs, leaving gravity's direction and strength is fluctuating. Roll a d4 to determine if: 1) gravity's effects disappear and you are left weightless and floating; 2) gravity is present but weakened; 3) gravity has increased slightly; 4) gravity has increase substantially. Roll a 1d10 to determine the direction of gravity, in a clockwise manner (1 in north, 2 northeast, etc.) with 9 and 10 representing up and down."
46,Precipitation that causes any material or creature that it touches to begin to age and deteriorate at an increased pace. This light shower/flurry causes unprotected creatures and objects to age a year per hour of travel.
47,Moderate rainfall that causes any material or creature that it touches to begin to age and deteriorate at an increased pace. Unprotected creatures and objects to age 1d10 years per hour of travel.
48,A rain or snow that causes any material or creature that it touches to begin to age and deteriorate at an increased pace. Unprotected creatures and objects to age 1d10 years per minute of travel.
49,A torrential downpour that causes any material or creature that it touches to begin to age and deteriorate at an increased pace. Unprotected creatures and objects to age 1d10 years per round of exposure.
50,"From the clouds a series of earth-motes appear like floating bergs of debris. Slow and deliberate travel is needed with the earth-mote field to avoid a collision, but the more adventurous (or foolhardy) can try their skill and luck and attempt navigating the field at a faster pace."
51,"Cobble to boulder sized clasts of stone fall from above (be it from earthen-motes, planar portals, or other magical means). Evasive maneuvers are needed to avoid being struck."
52,Crosswinds begin to blow you off course. You gain 10ft of movement to the left of right but you lose 10ft of movement in the opposite direction.
53,"Barometric flux leads to rapid pressure change that leaves your ears popping. Severe changes in pressure may leave living creatures with bloody noses, headaches, or other minor inconveniences."
54,The air is becoming thinner and thinner leaving living creatures short of breathe. Extended time at this altitude will leave living creatures exhausted.
55,As you traverse you come across a sideways vortex of swirling clouds that acts as a wormhole. Distances mean little when passing through these abnormalities. Those passing through may be shunted to new locations far from where they began or find their journeys drastically shortened/lengthened. The passage of time within and without the vortex tend to differ. A simple 5 minute flight may have actually taken 5 days.
56,A blood rain falls as a torrential downpour sending crew and other intelligent creatures fearfully seeking shelter. Often seen as a true sign of ill omen from the gods.
57,Declining temperature has resulted in water condensing on you and your equipment. Extended flight results in you becoming soaked in water.
58,Funnel clouds extends from dark grey to green clouds like probing tentacles reaching for the ground. Continued development of the storm can lead to the formation of a tornado. Strong turbulent winds make flying difficult.
59,The air is thick and musty with high humidity. Each breathe feels labored with moisture while sweat perpetually falls down your face.
60,Dense clouds form impenetrable obstacles due to their firm but squishy consistency. Collision does little to no damage to you or your equipment but you may bounce off or become beached.
61,"Gale force winds appear quickly, making continued flight inadvisable."
62,You are flying through the aftermath of a rain shower/thunderstorm. The light to moderate breeze is humid but cool. One or more rainbows/moon-bows can be seen behind the weather front.
63,"You enter into a pocket or layer of various gases that may or may not be breathable. Open flames begin to burn strange colors (e.g. green, blue, purple, etc.) within these bodies of air."
64,A bright sun beats down on you from above. No noticeable breeze is present to provide relief.
65,The sky is partly cloudy. Individuals clouds rove across the otherwise sunny/moonlit sky.
66,"The veil between the planes thins as an aurora dances across crystal the night sky. Fliers may accidentally, or intentionally, pass through the aurora into other planes as if they were passing through a colored pool within the Astral Plane.."
67,"Thin golden clouds cover anything passing through the area. These clouds are composed of swirling flurries of a highly reflective glitter-like materials. Creatures entering these areas become blinded and, if invisible, are outlined. The highly reflective nature of the ""glitter"" make stealth excessively difficult."
68,"Thin gossamer strands of webbing float through the air, sticking to anything solid that it comes in contact with. This webbing builds up over time unless removed (either through rigorous cleaning, dissolution, burning, etc.) leading to creatures and mechanisms becoming restrained as per the web spell."
69,Clouds of condensing ethanol vapors cause creatures passing through or nearby to quickly become drunk. These clouds are also highly flammable..
70,The diminishing winds carry a sense of calm regardless of their severity. One or more energy types (from both mundane and magical sources) are quelled. Damage from selected energy types are reduced by 10 points for the duration of this effect.
71,Your flight takes your through a rainfall that falls upwards against gravity. All other objects and entities are still affected by regular gravity.
72,The rapidly rising clouds are composed of churning wisps of super heated steam and boiling water. Caution must be taken to prevent severe scalding burns.
73,"Banks of clouds and fog have a dispelling effect against spells, spell-like abilities, and magic items."
74,The weather in the area quickly and often randomly transitions between the different seasons.
75,Your flight takes you through a light shower of corrosive rain. Unprotected creatures and objects take 1d6 acid damage every hour they remain exposed.
76,Your flight takes you through a moderate shower of corrosive rain. Unprotected creatures and objects take 1d6 acid damage every 10 minutes they remain exposed.
77,Your flight takes you through a heavy shower of corrosive rain. Unprotected creatures and objects take 1d6 acid damage every minute they remain exposed.
78,Your flight takes you through torrential downpour of corrosive rain. Unprotected creatures and objects take 1d6 acid damage every round they remain exposed.
79,"An oily precipitation falls from the sky, coating surfaces in a slick. All unprotected surfaces, creatures, and/or items are coated in this substance and count as having the grease spell being applied to them."
80,Copper coins fall from the sky like hail.
81,The air feels thick and resists fast movements. Flying creatures are slowed down due to the increased resistance whereas non-flying creatures gain a fly speed since they may now swim through the air.
82,A light fog covers the ground but it dissipates throughout the morning hours.
83,The night sky takes on an almost ethereal clarity as the stars shine down from above. Those traveling at high altitudes will find the barrier between the mundane and astral planes are thin. Flight becomes more a concept of thought rather than physical action..
84,"Elemental tempests appear on the horizon as a severe storm. The storm is a chaotic and unstable torrent of the elements (fire, water/cold, acid, sonic/thunder, electricity/lightening, etc.) in an ever alternating states of matter. For every round of travel within the tempest roll a d6 to determine the energy type of the storm with a six indicating two energy types."
85,"A dry thunderstorm wracks the sky with lightening and turbulent winds, however, no rain falls."
86,You enter into a pocket or layer of of bad air. Open flames begin to burn weaker or are snuffed within these bodies of air due to the lack of oxygen. Creatures that require breathable air must make a DC 15 (+1 for each hour in the bad air) Fortitude/Constitution save for each hour of travel or become fatigued/exhausted as they slowly asphyxiate from the lack of oxygen.
87,Scintillating Fog covers the ground below. This fog takes on a myriad of shifting colors but otherwise does not provide further effects.
88,"A fell bank of clouds and/or fog chills all creatures to the bone while barely audible whispers provide a sense of unease. Any dead creatures within this cloud reanimate as a zombie, as per the animate dead spell, and begin to attack the nearest living creature. The reanimation wanes quickly once the zombies are removed from the cloud/fog."
89,"You enter into a pocket or layer of of rejuvenating air imbued with positive/radiant energies. Creatures that require breathable air take longer to become fatigued/exhausted and recover from injuries faster. Undead, however, must make a Fortitude/Constitution save for each hour of travel or gain a level of fatigue/exhaustion."
90,"The clouds form the vague shapes of legendary creatures and humanoids (dragons, giants, chimera, ancient heroes, etc.). The nature of these clouds is variable, some float peacefully on the winds, bold formations perform tricks and daring maneuvers, while others collide with one another in replication of battles long forgotten. These cloud formations generally do little to hinder flight, outside of providing a pleasant distraction."
91,Thundersnow blankets the area in a driving snowfall that is illuminated by periodic flashes of lightening.
92,Hallucinatory weather masks the true conditions around you. Roll on this table twice. The first option is the actual weather condition that is occurring with the second result being what creatures experience.
93,"Sepia Storm and Venusian Rain are phenomena that drains color from the world under its melancholic clouds. These rains literally wash the color off anything exposed leaving entire landscapes in muted tones of sepia, grayscale, or white.."
94,Howling winds not typically seen outside of Pandemonium itself tear through the airspace carrying all vocalizations it passes in its zephyr. Creatures without hearing protection generally run the risk of temporary to permanent deafness from the cacophony.
95,The waters of the river Styx begin to fall as rain or snow causing any caught unprotected to be under the effects of the feeblemind spell.
96,"Demon ichor falls as a thick putrid rain that causes demonic mutations in any exposed creatures, except constructs."
97,Atmospheric instability wracks the area resulting in rapidly shifting conditions. Roll on this d100 table for a given 1d10 round/minute interval of travel.
98,Hag hail falls as grotesque amalgam of dirty ice that carries a fragment of malign purpose to bestow misery onto others. Those struck by the hail are at risk of contracting a minor curse that lasts until removed by magic or until the power driving the curse dissipates over the course of hours to days.
99,Select 1d4 conditions to occur simultaneously.
100,Strong gusts of wind make traveling by air a dangerous idea!

d100,Entry

1,"Slithersoup: a liquid that when consumed in large quantities, makes you feel like your bones are jelly and commonly causes people to writhe on the ground like snakes when taken in higher doses."
2,"Feydust: A soft white powder that, in the right light, shines with soft blues and red. The powder tastes like burnt ozone, which makes it evident that it needs to be snorted. Use causes bonuses to IQ based tasks but also makes its user seek it out more and more for increasingly trivial tasks."
3,"Halfling Weed: Most often dried, chopped, and smoked. Causes extreme emotions to abate and induces near euphoric mellow-ness and, occasionally, a user will experience mild hallucinations. Side effects include increased appetite and red, puffy eyes."
4,"Blue sand: A substance similar to fine sand found at the beach, only that it’s deep blue colored. Consumed through the nose. One to five doses (depending on Wis or Con modifier) are enough to develop an addiction. Early effects (one to three weeks): Enhanced perception, athletics & acrobatics Following deterioration of body and mind: First (after four weeks of constant consumption): One exhaustion stack per three days without a dose. Second (after six weeks): Negative modifiers (-2) on all attributes and disadvantage on all skills. Third (after 8 weeks): Death."
5,"Dream Flake: Thin slivers of a dried, black fungus. When place between cheek and gum, it induces hallucinations and euphoria. When smoked, the user enters an extremely vivid waking dream, which can last for hours. Extended use blackens the teeth and make 'bad trips' more common. Addictive."
6,"Wrymwood: looks like a cinnamon stick but smells of fungus. Grind some up and put in a tea. When drunk, it provides a psychedelic trip for 1d4 hours (halved on a DC 15 con ST and doubled when failing by more than 5)."
7,"Grellsvice: A drug usually administered as an oral capsule made from the spikes at the end of a grell’s tentacles. Effects last for roughly two hours on a regular 200 mg dose, and leave the user with a four-hour hangover of sorts. The main draw to grellsvice is a tingling sense in the muscles and extra-sensitive motor functionality. This comes with a strong euphoric rush whenever a new body part is moved. The drawback is the lack of motor functionality during the hangover and the incredibly dulled sense of touch accompanied with it."
8,"Sundrop: a bright yellow/orange liquid, naturally incandescent, as if it was a liquefied ray of sunshine (henceforth the name). Originally used as a magically synthesized antidepressant, Sundrop when consumed tricks the user into believing that they are happy, as it quite literally gives them ‘warm feelings’. Over usage may leave the user feeling withered between uses, as their dependency has rendered them unable to produce dopamine and serotonin. Over time users also commonly begin to build tolerances to Sundrop, requiring greater quantities to be consumed to maintain the effect. Overdosing on Sundrop causes feverish conditions, as the drug radiates through the users veins, ultimately burning them alive from the inside out."
9,"Patch: It works similarly to ecstasy, expanding yourself to feel the sensations all around you. It grants the ability to speak with plants and animals for 1d4+1 hours, and the comedown has a DC15 CON save. Failing the save adds one point of exhaustion immediately after waking from the first long rest you take, and lasts until completing the next long rest."
10,Lakua: ground silvery bark from a type of tree only found deep in swamps. Low dosages are generally taken orally. Heavier users often make a paste to apply to their gums. Addicts may smear it into cuts. It gives an adrenaline rush and time seems to slow down but the duration of the high is short. Death comes from heart failure or self-neglect. Psychologically addictive not physically.
11,Zooterran: Made from refined Exem plums. Alters one's sense of direction and causes one to only turn right when faced with a left/right choice.
12,"Blackroot: This lichen grows on large rocks and boulders found above timberline (the elevation at which trees do not have enough oxygen to grow). When chewed on, it causes the user to have a pleasant, tingling sensation of the lips, tongue, and gums. As well, it can give the user a sense of mental sharpness and alertness. If swallowed, it causes nausea and vomiting if the user fails a DC 13 Constitution check. If used for 1d6 hours continuously, the user must make a DC 15 Constitution check. If failed, they experience nausea, but if passed they gain advantage on Perception checks for the next 1d4 hours. Not inherently addictive, though if used for 1d12 days in a row, the user will feel extremely groggy if they do not use it every morning."
13,"Deluge: Packaged in single-dose vials, ingesting this ethereal blue liquid gives subjects temporary access to spell-like abilities of varying degrees; usually cantrips and 1st Level spells, but sometimes more powerful spells depending on the purity of the substance. However, the temporary magic abilities come with a price: each time an individual ingests Deluge they take Constitution damage: 1d4 for average doses, 1d6 and above for purer doses. This is because the magical energy that Deluge is providing is actually taken from their own souls and continued use will cause them to gradually wither away. It’s named Deluge because it feels like a flood of energy and power washes over you."
14,"Barb: A thorny stalk from the Cheb barb weed (looks like purple buck thorn). Sold by the branch, you can pull off individual thorns and use them to scrape or pierce the skin. The side effects are similar to pot, but too much can result in paralysis."
15,Scurva: a vial filled with an irridesant liquid. When drunk it causes it user to see colors more vibrantly and lights to shimmer and become more liquid like. Also makes its user completely intoxicated.
16,"Fizz: A bubbly, sweet drink in a glass bottle. It has a red label, which reads 'Fizz-Cola'. When you drink a Fizz-Cola, you have the urge to drink another. That's it."
17,"Espiritu: a drug derived from a certain flower commonly used in holy rituals. When blessed, left to wither for at least three days, and then dehydrated completely and turned into a powder becomes a strange blessing all it's own. If smoked or snorted, this powder grants a single question answered by a Divine being. It also grants a strong feeling of peace and euphoria, as well as a strong sense of hunger."
18,"Devil's Root: A black root that is ground up and snorted. The user blacks out and sees visions of hell. Sometimes, these visions allow the user to see into the future."
19,"Wandercaps: When you ingest these plain gray mushrooms, you fall into a deep trance. You experience vivid hallucinations, often nonsensical, but sometimes hinting about the events in the near future. The comedown is unpleasant."
20,"Ember Berries: These faintly glowing black berries are used in coming-of-age rituals in a certain druidic sect. Drink a tea made from these, and you will become relaxed and calm. After a few minutes, flames begin cloaking your body - as long as you remain focused and calm, they cannot hurt you."
21,"Bane: a mix of grinded wild herbs. Primarily consumed by smoking, it calms down the body to a point where you are so apathetic that even your greatest fears won't shock you anymore. Often used as medicine by insomniacs or lunatics, but also object to drug abuse."
22,"Sutara: When applied to the tongue, the user can speak any language they desire, that is, if they can handle the drug. Incorrect dosage or an unprepared system will result in them speaking in absolute gibberish for the duration."
23,"Sharpsugar: Expensive, indulged in by many performers to give them the boost of energy. Removes one level of exhaustion, gives advantage on perception checks, and adds 5 to your movement speed. User becomes jittery. Either snorted or smoked from a pipe. Made out of a rare plant that grows only on the Southern Coasts. The gangs that import it are incredibly dangerous."
24,"Sleepysalt: Similar to sharpsugar, but with different effects. +5 temporary HP and resistance to bludgeoning damage for 1 hour. At the end of the hour, you fall asleep for another hour."
25,"Drakeroot: Concentrated nectar of the mandrake plant. When you drink it, you go into a coma for 2 hours. During this coma, your outer layer of skin becomes more like a cocoon. At the end, you emerge with all health point fully restored and any scars gone. After 24 hours without another dose, you cannot heal using your hit die or over a long rest without using more Drakeroot. This continues until you break the addiction."
26,"Sannish: A blue liquid distilled from the milk of wolves and a powdered desert plant. Causes euphoria and gives advantage on constitution saving throws. Very cheap, but also quite addictive. After three uses, your lips seem to be stained blue and cannot be washed off without magic like prestidigitation."
27,Mordayn Vapor: Also known as Dream Mist. Made from the ground leaves of a rare herb found deep in the jungle. Taken by dipping in hot water and inhaling the vapor from the tea. The raw powder and the tea are both very potent poisons. Inhaling the vapor causes intense hallucinations (albeit happy and beautiful ones). Drinking the tea or eating the powder causes 7d10 poison damage and 2d10 psychic damage. It is very illegal in every region of the world.
28,"Cyclops Tear: Taken by eating the powder. Causes your eyes to water a ludicrous amount. The tears produced are the main attraction of this drug. They taste perfect and are guaranteed to be the best thing you have and ever will taste, but the taste varies by the person. It also only tastes that way to the person whose tears it actually is. To everyone else it tastes like tears. Overdose causes one of your eyes to desiccate and fall out. Oddly enough, people with only one eye anyway are immune to this effect, so it is very popular among Cyclopes."
29,"Goji Leaves: Originally created as a weapon of war, Goji Leaves (when taken in just about any form) give you resistance to bludgeoning, piercing, and slashing damage, advantage on all strength checks and saving throws, and rage damage equal to a barbarian of your level. User doesn't become angry though, instead becoming far more confident than they could have ever been without it, nearly crossing the line into cocky."
30,"Zaegoo: Harvested from a breed of gelatinous cube native to the colder regions, it causes a biting cold sensation on the way down, but gives you immunity to cold damage and the ability to withstand cold climates for 3 hours."
31,"Terran Brandy: A brandy made out of the essence of dying fey. Gives +2 intelligence and restores 6 spell slots worth of slots (so either 6 1st levels, 1 6th level, etc.). May or may not invoke the wrath of an archfey. Only used by the most rich and powerful (and evil) archmages"
32,"Luhix: Made from the powdered stalks of a plant grown in the Abyss by demon lords to give to brainwashed cultists. Applied to an open wound that is then sealed with either bandages or magic. User has intense pain for the first minute, with -1 to all ability scores. Afterwards, user is immune to pain (they still take damage, but it doesn't bother them) and they have +2 to all ability scores for 10 minutes."
33,"Agony: The distilled essence of pain. Mainly used by torturers as a social lubricant, but masochists will sometimes also seek it out. When the thick, reddish-brown liquid is ingested (via mouth), the user is hit by intense pain, making them unable to move for 2 rounds, having disadvantage on all ability checks for 1d6+1 minutes. During this time, target will likely give up any info. After the pain, user feels intense pleasure for 1d4 hours, although this is less an effect of Agony and more of them appreciating their lack of pain."
34,Yggdrasil Sap: A legendary drug that causes you to see into your future. This future is usually the users own death if they don't pass the DC 15 Constitution saving throw to not die from it.
35,"Weirdling Tea: a tea that shifts in color from orange to blue, when drank the user sees the effect of a roll on the wild magic table. (This is however just a hallucination)"
36,"Tasha's: a powdered form of Tasha's Hideous Laughter, looks like a great time, but really isn't."
37,"Powdered Power: a glittering substance that almost looks like diamond dust, consumed by snorting. It fills you with a sense of euphoria and you feel like you can do anything, for about an hour. During this time you have advantage on all ability checks and attack rolls. After the hour is up, you must make a DC 5 CON save against addiction, and the DC increases by 5 after every dose. Should you fail this save, you then have disadvantage on all ability checks, saving throws and attack rolls until your next dose. Once addicted you no longer have to make CON saves after each dose. To remove the addiction you can make a DC 20 CON save after going one month without taking a dose."
38,"Brighteye Venom: This venom has, so far, only been consumable by having the Brighteye Spider inject the user. The bite leaves small, purplish holes and blue lines run up the veins. The user’s eyes will turn purple and blue, as if the cosmos were trapped within them. A creature injected with Brighteye Venom must pass a DC 16 Constitution save. Failure results in the creature being stunned for 1d4 hours and poisoned for 1d4 days. Passing the save allows the creature to cast the scrying spell, with a spell save DC for the target of 20."
39,"Top hat: a small top hat shaped consumable that melts on your tongue, soon enough you begin to see statistics on item weight, size, price, juice content, fuzzability, gloppiness...and perhaps some or all of these are just made up in you mind."
40,"Druidic Dream: A mostly benign pill made by druids and sold to whoever wishes to buy some. Its ingredients and manufacture are secrets the druids keep to themselves. When held under the tongue the pill puts the user in a mild state of giddyness similar to being a 'happy drunk' for 1d4 hours (DC13 con save for half, 19 to deny), followed by 1d4 hours of sleep with idyllic dreams. Addiction 1, 10%, nature."
41,"Elendran Pipeweed: Algae that were considered a pest by the Elendran merfolk, until some crazy surfacer decided to set it on fire and noticed his mind was both sharper and duller at the same time. Gives the user -4 intelligence and +2 wisdom while smoking it, though it takes a minute to kick in and a minute to wear off once the user stops. Acquisition: 20gp for 5 minutes worth of weed. Addiction 1, 5%, nature."
42,"Feywillow Fruit: Fruit from a tree in the Feywild. The more the user eats, the more they want to eat. It is not harmful in and of itself, just highly addictive. Heavy users are eventually drawn into the Feywild, leaving their friends and families behind, often without saying a word. Addiction 2, nature."
43,"Funpowder: A magic/alchemic powder made by reclusive druids, funpowder changes the user's biologic gender for 1 hour for every ounce consumed. Usually consumed while diluted in water and/or in combination with a spiked drink."
44,"Mountain Lotus Extract: A rare but enormous mountain lotus is put in a cauldron filled with alcohol and sugar. The cauldron is then heated until the flower dissolves, then left in the fire until most of the alcohol evaporates and a black sludge is left. The sludge is then mixed with Chemis sawdust, at which point it can be either eaten (either by itself or as a spice) or smoked. When used the Extract greatly expands the user's mind, granting +6 to intelligence, wisdom and charisma for an hour. Once the effect wears off the user must make a DC30 intelligence saving throw or 'gain' a permanent -1 to intelligence, wisdom and charisma, as their brain has overexerted itself. This effect can only be removed by a Wish spell."
45,"Stardust: This dust is harvested by aliens and eldritch space horrors from dead stars and from the wake of meteors. It is generally consumed by mixing it with water or some other beverage, and it tastes sweeter than sugar. Other than mild dependency, users have a tendency to gradually turn into eldritch horrors with long-term exposition to the drug. Addiction 1, 50%, planar."
46,"Purified Stardust: The raw dust is harvested by aliens and eldritch space horrors from dead stars and from the wake of meteors. An archfey then purifies the stardust, keeping its ability to provide visions while lowering the addiction. It is generally consumed by mixing it with water or some other beverage, and it tastes sweeter than sugar. The user sees through illusions and shape shifters, but also hallucinates to the point of being unable to tell truth from reality. Addiction 1, 20%, nature."
47,"Styxroot: A root that grows on the margins of the river Styx in the Seven Hells. Eating it raw or making tea out of it makes the individual unable to remember anything that happens to them for the next 8 hours. A constitution saving throw of 12 lowers it to 6 hours, 15 to 4 hours, 18 to 1 hour, or 20 to completely ignore the effect."
48,"The Flayed Mind: A drink containing some of the Mind Flayer's mind-numbing powers. Makes the user dumb and slow, much like weed however much stronger. Any mental saving throws made while under its effect automatically fail, making this the preferred tool of enslavers everywhere. Once the effect wears off the user may make a DC20 int save to remember what happened while under the Flayed Mind's effects. This saving throw can only be made once. Addiction 1, psionic."
49,"The Ladies' Love: Succubus sweat has pheromones meant to make men go crazy in bed. Some alchemists can potentialize this effect, making it stronger and longer lasting. When this paste is applied to the skin it removes all inhibitions from the user, as well as making them more selfish and straightforward. On males it causes them to become aroused and extra horny, while mildly improving their physical skills (+3 to str, dex and con). All effects last an hour. DC 16 charisma save denies. Addiction 1, demonic."
50,"Underdrink: A strong alcoholic beverage created by the Duergar, Underdrink consists of several poisonous herbs and monster venoms, all mixed and distilled in a ceremonial fashion. Drinking a full cup is often lethal to those without poison resistance (2d8 poison damage, DC18 con save for half), however those who do not die quickly become dependent on the drink. Addiction 3, alchemical."
51,"Vladri: Arguably the strongest drug made in the Material Plane, vladri consists of Underdark mushrooms dissolved in spider venom. It is sold by the Drow. When injected it causes euphoria and visions of eldritch horrors which may or may not be hallucinations. Lasts 1d4-1 (minimum of 1) hours. At the end of the duration, the target has a fulminating heart attack and dies (DC25 con save reduces it to 10d8 necrotic damage). It is used as a lethal injection, in order to cause a (physically) painless death. When drunk in small amounts it merely causes euphoria and hallucinations for 2d6 hours (DC20 con save for half), without putting your mind in direct contact with eldritch horrors or bursting the heart."
52,"Angel's Trumpet: A plant with immeasurable potency. When the plant is burned and inhaled, you see dead relatives, friends, or others that died nearby and converse with them casually without being phased by their presence. This effect lingers within the body and goes in and out of dormancy every 1d12 hours and lasts 1d6 hours. For potency roll 1d10 for the amount of instances. Roll 1d12 after each instance to determine when it returns."
53,Mushroom Love: Made from the spoors of Myconids it gives those that inhale its vapors a feeling of connection and is highly addictive.
54,"Cave Fisher Blood Ale: Often drank by Dwarven Berserkers from a killed cave fisher, many simply drink the blood straight and use it's powerful intoxicating abilities to boost battle potency at a price. After drinking, it’s effects last for 1d4 hours. During this time the drinker gains a +5 to melee attack and damage rolls, advantage on Constitution saves, and advantage on saves against being charmed and frightened. However, once the time is up the drinker must succeed a DC 15 Constitution Saving Throw or gain a level of exhaustion. If the save fails by 5 or more, the drinker gains 2 levels. (The advantage on CON saves can’t help on this save because the effect is already over)"
55,"Kana Dust: a powder blended from a medical herb and crystalline magic. Gives mages a power boost for their spells. However, side effects increase risk of magic going wild. Reroll 1s on magic damage. Also roll 2d20. Of either are a 1-2 roll on wild magic."
56,"Gorgon: Mushrooms, which are eaten raw or dried and powdered. Gorgon gives the user paralysis for a couple of hours and gives vivid hallucinations, which are somewhat controlled by the user like a lucid dream. Most of the time the experience is pleasant but people have been known to have some horrible trips. Most people will prepare before taking the drug and lie in bed or in a grassy field, but those with more desperate addictions can often been found collapsed in the streets, stone still except for rapid eye movement."
57,"Dreamer’s Fancy: A dark, shimmering liquid extracted from a rare root. When imbibed, renders the drinker unconscious as it plunges their mind into a black void in which they have full control to shape and create whatever they wish. Those who drink from the same root can participate in this lucid dream together, and their creation can be returned to by drinking from this root again."
58,"Flash powder: A vial containing pink vapors and dust. Upon lifting the vial to the characters nose and inhaling deeply, the user will be filled with an immense sense of power and will now be able to run, jump, swim, and lift up to 4 times as much as they previously could for 1 hour. In combat they may take an additional action once per battle. After 1 hour of usage, the user will feel sluggish and will have their senses dulled which will result in a disadvantage on perception and most strength based abilities for 4 hours or until completing a short rest. Each usage of flash powder will get weaker (-1 on the multiplier) for every time you inhale it without taking 2 weeks to recover from your body becoming immune to flash powder."
59,"Limit Remover: A highly expensive pill that after 2 hours of ingesting grants the user the ability to cast any number of spells without restrictions for 10 minutes according to the shady vendor. In actuality it is just a mint, a coat button, or something pull shaped that gives no benefit whatsoever."
60,"Faerie Food: There is a longstanding piece of wisdom, which says that you should never eat food offered to you by a faerie. This is absolutely true; in the Feywild, magic is so commonplace that 'cooking' is considered it's own school of magic, a mix of enchantment and illusion. Such food when eaten provides a taste that is far beyond anything a real tastebud could ever feel, and addiction is fast, difficult to resist and often lethal as mere mortal foods are not even considered food to an addict. Addiction is generally permanent, but can be cured slowly by a specialist who slowly drops the quality of food an addict ears until they can handle mortal foods again. Alternatively, if the food was eaten only once, a well-placed Modify Memory spell may cure the mental dependence."
61,"Faerie Dust: A very fine, iridescent powder, which is kept in a wax, sealed bottle, it is consumed by unsealing the bottle and very gently wafting the contents towards the nose with a DC 10 dexterity check, with failure resulting in an overdose. When correctly dosed, instills a gentle euphoria as senses sharpen and surroundings appear more vibrant, providing advantage on investigation and perception checks for one minute. When overdosed, the user experiences sensory overload, becoming confused for one minute. Faerie Dust, despite the generic name, is actually the collected breath of a faerie dragon. They find it hilarious that mortals can get high off their breath, and will happily provide the breath attack itself with only gentle coaxing. Some faerie dragons make their home in drug dens, exchanging their breath for a luxurious lifestyle and the opportunity to ply their pranks upon the many citizens of a mortal city. Some particularly daring patrons will pay handsomely for a high 'straight from the source', taking the breath attack of the faerie dragonhead on and inhaling deeply. The high provided is incredibly intense, and as a result such services are usually only offered with the recipient strapped down on a specially constructed bench."
62,"Shatter: A waxy, pale amber substance that can be smoked or consumed in a tincture. In lower doses it produces a pleasant high, but in higher doses (and for particularly sensitive individuals) it can cause a person to literally split in into multiple versions of themselves. If a PC consumes shatter and fails a saving throw, they are split into several nearly indistinguishable copies of themselves. A roll of 2 + 1d6 gives the number of shards. Okay, now for the catch: the character's stats must be distributed among the shards with no duplication, so the sum of the shards' abilities is the same as the original character. Additionally, all of the shards have an aspect or condition representing their intoxicated state. After a period of time at GM's discretion, the shards will coalesce and merge again into the original character."
63,"Venge: a deep red powder of mineral origin that can be snorted for a euphoric and stimulant effect. If the character consuming it has any Berserker or Jekyll/Hyde like attributes, their Dark Side will come out 2-3 hours after ingestion, or if provoked. Even characters lacking such vulnerability, become belligerent and disagreeable after doing a line of Venge."
64,"Mummy Powder: though its true origin is unknown, the one thing that's certain is that it doesn't come from a mummy. When a sufficient quantity is consumed mixed with wine, it puts the drinker into a catatonic state for several hours. They experience a sensation of being transported elsewhere, into a vast unlit space. Cold cyclopean stones tile the floor and neither walls nor ceiling can be found. Many experience a presence, a monstrous and unspeakably ancient intellect with only one desire: escape from the dusty emptiness of this prison and into the fullness of the waking world. This being can and will barter various intangible goods: knowledge, memories, skills. However, it only has access to such things as it could previously have acquired from another mummy powder user. Furthermore, it will not give any knowledge directly pertaining to its own nature or the nature of mummy powder. Finally, before making such a transaction, characters are filled with a sense of dread and the knowledge that the being would only have carried out such a bargain if it brought the day of its escape nearer. This can be represented by a will save if the GM wants to emphasize the direness of the act."
65,"Forget Me Nots: These flowers grow in the wild, yellow in color. They can commonly be found in bright sunny climates. When consumed they apply a temporary new life. When consumed you believe you have a different life. If a lone wolf Assassin ate one he could very well believe he is a humble lumberjack with a small family in the countryside, at least for a couple of hours (1D4 hours)"
66,"Fever Fire: Made from the petals of a translucent flower that grows even in the coldest and most barren environments. Instantly incapacitates the user and raises their internal temperature to 110 F for one minute. Instantly cures frostbite, but the user must make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw at the end or suffer 1 point of exhaustion."
67,"Crit: A street drug, popular with daredevils and dreadnoughts that will make every roll a 50/50 critical fail or critical success for 1d6 hours."
68,"Beholders Tears: A liquid applied to the eyes with a pipette that grants 30ft truesight for 1d4 hours. But also causes hallucinations ('Ok, the Ghost has gone down that corridor by the dancing Bugbear troupe... Remember to give them a tip as we go by’). Roll WIS save DC 20 or gain long-term madness extreme paranoia."
69,Umber Hulk Brain Brew: A rare thick dark brown drink. After being ingested the user can cast confusion 3 times no spell slots required. But the user also loses their memory of the most recent 1d6 hours.
70,"Reverie Sticks: Thin, hollow sticks similar to those used for incense. When burned, the smoke causes non-hostile creatures to enter a relaxed, dreamlike state. Reverie sticks can also be snapped in half under one's nose; a sharp inhale of its contents delivers a powerful rush of euphoria. The user has advantage on checks to resist fear and disadvantage on checks to resist being charmed for 1d4 hours."
71,"Fate's Hair: a flowering plant with long sinewy fibers much like hair inside the flower. When consumed you feel intense euphoria, and have a type of clairvoyance leading you to the next noteworthy encounter fate has planned for you- ahead of schedule. But, is it accurate or merely a hallucination?"
72,The Barbarian's Secret: An ingested dark red liquid that tastes strangely coppery. Requires a CON save DC 20. On a successful save you gain a great sense of confidence verging on recklessness and advantage on Strength checks for the next 10 min. On a failed save you still gain the features of a successful save but your INT score is reduced to 4 for the next 10 min.
73,"Stone Brew: A mixture containing what seem to be spiced-up brittle rocks. It hardens the skin of whoever drinks it, increasing their base AC by 1 for 1d6 hours. It is not advised to make this drink if you aren't familiar with stones, as the wrong kind will scratch your throat and provide you no benefit."
74,Shadow gut: A strange slimy slippery pitch-black gel that needs to be ingested. Once used it will give 3d8 necrotic damage but it will also grant a +5 to stealth checks for the next hour as the user appears to fade into darkness.
75,"Redthyme: Also known as hate in a bottle or bone-hurting juice. A thoroughly nasty little potion brewed from a strange red weed, the eyes of a cat, thyme, willow sap, drippings from a cow's liver, and the moss from a human skull. A shot's worth of this will drove anyone into a psychotic, agonizing fugue where they will attack anyone they see. Survivors have described the experience as 'pure hell'. The taste is mild but unpleasant, like blood and lemon juice mixed together, but the flavor is easily masked with alcohol. Useful in assassinations, murders, and general evil."
76,"Red Hive: When smoked you can speak with insects, other effects include reddened vision, euphoria, and a crawling on your skin like bees walking on it."
77,"Troll Dust: mixture of various troll parts. When smoked, you gain resistance to acid for 6hrs and it acts as a powerful aphrodisiac."
78,"Devil's Tongue: while high: everything seems so surreal, your body feels numb in a good way, and everything sounds far away. Things outside of ((1D4+2)*10) ft. are a blur of colors and shapes. --- Effects are like true sight, but they allow the user to see (into / alongside) other worlds, mainly hellish landscapes mangled into ours. --- Either a negative effect or disadvantage on dex checks and hearing based perception checks. Advantage on sight based perception, investigation, and insight checks."
79,"Warmroot: A small orange tinted root that on consumption, warms the body, a feeling very similar to being cozy in bed. All senses are slightly dulled. This was initially used for miners who worked in conditions of extreme cold, but was quickly discovered as highly addictive, warping the user into complete dependence on the drug. 3 Doses begins the addiction, with every week following a -1 being applied to all ability checks, stacks to five. They user does not have these effects for 2 hours after consumption."
80,"Drektheth Powder: Commonly referred as 'Dragon Dust'. A golden powder with the same consistency of flour, the drug is overly bitter. After consumption, it makes the user feel much stronger than before, although no actual physical change takes place. The drug is also known to cause shifts in personality, usually making the user act boastful and haughty while under its effects. Sometimes this change will carry over into soberness as well for 1d8 hours."
81,Illithidust: A deep purple powder made from residue from the inside of Mind Flayer funerary jars. Once snorted or eaten the powder will temporarily provide limited random psionic powers. Roll 1d4 and the resulting effects lasts 10 minutes. 1. The user can communicate telepathically at a distance of 30ft 2. The user can move objects in a telekinetic fashion as if using mage hand 3. Weapon attacks by the user deal an additional 1d6 psychic damage 4. The user gains resistance to psychic damage after the effects have worn off the user must make a CHA saving throw (DC 18) or take 3 Int score damage until their next long rest.
82,"Snakeroot: A root that can be ground into a hallucinogenic powder. One dose (1/4 root) gives you disadvantage on all perception checks for 5 minutes, adding 5 for each dose beyond that."
83,"Unicorn Wax: Burning this wax-like substance that is found under the tongues of certain unicorns and inhaling the smoke will cause the user to experience hallucinations of a magical, bright, and colorful world for 1d12 hours, and increases wisdom by 1 for 1d6 hours."
84,"Shadowfell Sage: Chewing the pitch black roots of this plant will grant the user a deep sleep for 8 hours, during which they will appear dead to anyone that fails a DC 16 medicine check. Overuse results in the subject's heart rate permanently decreases."
85,"Dwarven fury: When smoked by a dwarf, this sour smelling underground moss renders the dwarf immune to gaining exhaustion for the 2d4 hours, after which they must make a DC 8+(number of hours)+(levels of exhaustion) Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, they gain all levels of exhaustion they would have taken during the period. If a non-dwarf attempts to use it, they must make a DC 16 Constitution saving throw to gain the effects. Otherwise, they are poisoned for the duration instead."
86,"Salja: extracted from the hair-thin root endings of certain tundra grasses, Salja is a faintly bitter, dun paste. However, any food eaten shortly after or while also ingesting Salja becomes incredibly, irresistibly delicious. The drug itself is non-addictive. Instead, users become addicted to the taste of the food they ate Salja with."
87,"Droon: a potent, dull brown salve absorbed through one's pores, Droon greatly amplifies all sensations experienced by the body part, including proprioception. It can be an exhilarating or miserable experience, depending on how it's used- a drooned-up hand marvels at the softness of silk, but might seize up and develop rashes as the temperature fluctuates. The localized enhanced proprioception can be disorienting for new users as well, but the euphoric sensations it grants are well worth it. Droon is rumored to be the refined toxic extract of a particular tall cactus."
88,"Ceruminal: a sparkling, faintly greenish wax originally sold as a decorative soap. A typical oral dose (about 12 grams) is enough to send an adult human of average weight into a pleasant mental fugue. They're incredibly disoriented during this time, often walking in elliptical loops, and when they eventually come down, all they remember is a sense of buoyancy and pleasant warmth. A rare few feel tiny sharp pounding at the top of their head, or dulled pain throughout their entire body. At lower doses, all it does is help clear sinuses. A dose in excess of twice the normal amount per body weight tends to result in worse experiences during the fugue- downing a whole block of Ceruminal soap often makes one feel like their muscles have sloughed off and were then shredded, all while the user can still feel their muscles."
89,"Pixie's Fire: A rose golden-coloured powder-like substance that, when inhaled through the nose or mouth causes the user to become immune to being charmed or frightened for an hour, they must make a DC 15 con save at the end of the hour or gain 1 level of exhaustion."
90,Ogre's Breath: A strong smelling drug that was accurately but a little unimaginatively named. Once smoked the user gains plus 4 to strength checks while smoking but must make a DC 20 CON save or their brain and tongue swell giving them -5 to their INT score (Min 4) and an inability to speak clearly and a temper. The effects last while they smoke and 3D6 minutes after.
91,"Watchroot: A simple, unprocessed root commonly used by goblins. You can chew over 3 hours, during which you gain advantage on perception checks, initiative checks, and can't be surprised. The juices can stain the teeth and lips with repeated use, leading to addicts being easily distinguishable thanks to their blood-red teeth and lips."
92,"Dried Schmetterling Fish: The mummified remains of what once must have been a very colorful fish. Sardine sized, and extremely salty. The drying process moves this little guppy from incredibly poisonous to merely dangerously hallucinogenic. When consumed it allows the eater to see and hear into both the ethereal and astral planes, interact with creatures found there, and see invisible or shape-shifted creatures for what they truly are. It also makes the walls melt and the furniture start talking. You are considered under the effects of the “confusion” spell for the full hour these visions last."
93,"Apius Acrimonium: The foot long stinger and venom sack of the monstrous Furori Vespartum (Rage Wasp) occasionally used by quack doctors and pit fighters. When stabbed into the body, an affected creature takes 1d4 piercing damage and 2d4 poison damage. If the target survives, it then flies into an unstoppable rage for 30 minute. This rage works as though the creature were a first level barbarian, except that they cannot choose to end it. Every turn they must make a DC15 Wis save or immediately attack the nearest living thing until it dies. Every round they manage to not attack something, the DC goes up by 1, resetting upon failure. When the rage subsides, the creature immediately takes two levels of exhaustion."
94,"Star Dust: This substance comes from the dust off of the wings of a particular moth. When snorted, effects include: darkvision, insomnia, compulsion to follow or stare at light (disadvantage on all checks made against an opponent who is holding a torch or near a bright light source), and a feeling of weightlessness."
95,"Smorock: In the transitive planes, objects left behind slowly dissolve from existence. The moment before they are snuffed out, a mote of dust can be captured. That mote is Smorock a powerful hallucinatory Narcotic It can be taken: (orally): for 1 hour the world will become much more vivid. They will have advantage on Perception and investigation checks, but disadvantage on Wisdom and Intelligence saves. (Smoked): Constitution save. If failed the player is suffocating and immediately takes 1 point of exhaustion, they gain the benefits and disadvantages of orally. (Snorted): The player does not get the effects of the drug but has disadvantage on intelligence checks and Charisma checks for 1 hour. (Shelved): the effects are more intense and the player must make a wisdom save at disadvantage. If failed the Player is in a waking dream for 1 hour and must be led by another party member. On a pass the player gains Arcane Sight for 1 hour."
96,"Dragon's Dandruff: A flaky amber salt traditionally used as seasoning by lizard-folk, with it's signature 'chilli-high' making any party memorable. This magical mineral is intensely spicy, with one unnamed individual unused to the taste describing it as akin to chewing on a hot coal. After the initial sizzle (1d2 radiant damage) a teaspoon of the salt gives the consumer a rushing sensation of joy, increasing Charisma by 1 for an hour. After the salt metabolizes, the soul feels overcome by adrenaline, increasing Strength, Stamina, and Dexterity by 2 for an hour, and they are compelled to do physical tasks. Afterwards, they suffer 1 level of exhaustion. All of these effects do no stack. Undead characters take 1d6 radiant damage for every teaspoon consumed."
97,"Raybark: not actually made from bark at all, but by grounding up the thin strips of brightly colored fungus that grow on the northern side of raywood tree trunks. Raybark strongly amplifies 'strange' external senses when ingested or snorted- the ability to sense magnetic north, to tell when people are watching you (and where they are), to sense the coming of a storm, to read the health of a plant by the movements of its leaves in the wind, to see ultraviolet light, etc. The range of senses amplified and the intensity of amplification vary between users. However, the user's sense of their own body is greatly diminished while under the effects of Raybark, so they might trip over their own feet, swing their arms into their sides while running, or fail to properly clench their fists as their fingers miss each other. Produced and used by a convent of hippie-like pacifists who enjoy feeling more connected to the world around them."
98,"Spiral: a flammable, forest-green liquid sold in small dropper jars, spiral is a fast-acting and addictive oral drug. A user's sinuses and sense of balance are thrown out of whack as the drug begins to take hold, making them very dizzy. It simultaneously acts to dull pain and mute powerful sensory stimuli, giving advantage on any rolls that are dependent on resisting pain, blinding light, massive sounds, terrible stenches, etc. The dizzying effect makes rolls to keep one's feet or dodge harder, however. Spiral can be slowly burnt to produce a relatively large volume of smoke that has a diluted version of its effects. The smoke seems to be lethal to most insects, and those that don't immediately die drift around aimlessly until they do."
99,"Paladin's Placebo: A drug that when taken will satisfy any craving for any other drug the user is addicted to. Created by a former herbalist drug dealer that was coached by a paladin to quit their habit and change their life around. Ironically, the supply of the drug is tightly controlled by the Paladin order."
100,Powdered Order: A drug made from a Marut's metal body this rare and expensive drug is taken when mixed with liquid and drank. The effects last EXACTLY 5 minutes during this time the user must make a CON save DC 20 every time they knowingly attempt an chaotic act (if they don't know the law then they pass immediately) if they fail they lose the ability to lie and shout their intentions. In the past this drug has been used by lawful evil villains to catch or incriminate their enemies or by lawful good heroes for largely the same reasons.

d100,Entry

1,The party comes across a cave filled with mushrooms that emit a strange blue glow.
2,"Whoever is last in the party feels a small tug on their pant leg. When they look down, a Chwinga is offering them a small necklace made of sea shells."
3,A few baboons begin howling at the party below. This attracts the attention of a nearby enemy.
4,"A group of tribesmen are hunting a large dinosaur nearby. They have not spotted the party, and it looks like they could use some help."
5,Animal noises go quiet as the branches above you move and shake as if something is moving through them. Normal sounds continue a few minutes later.
6,You see the bones of a creature in the under growth. It has been picked clean by scavengers.
7,While resting a small swarm of loudly croaking frogs hop through the camp. Anyone touched by the frogs dreams prophetic dreams that nights.
8,"While moving through a river a few faintly glowing leeches attach themselves, but it’s not blood they’re draining but magic itself."
9,A thick curtain of vines hangs before you blocking the path. If looking carefully small jungle creatures can be seen entwined. When cut the vines quickly strike like snakes trying to ensnare the party.
10,Suddenly an empty clearing appears ahead nothing but dry grey skeletal trees hanging with a yellow moss.
11,Along the path primitive markers are spaced every 50 foot starting as humanoid in shape each seems more demonic.
12,"A ramshackle reed hut sits off the path, inside a grey furred Tabaxi slowly rakes its arms with its claws muttering about empty eyes and a glowing maw over and over."
13,"There is an arrangement of once brightly colored, wilting, flowers pinned to a tree ahead with the name of a stranger carved underneath."
14,Shallow panting can be heard to the right. Leads to a critically injured animal unable to run.
15,"A spider monkey jumps on the shoulder of a party member pawing at their backpack for food, in return for food the monkey returns later that day and drops a polished stone out of which a frowning face can be glanced."
16,"A swarm of insects surrounds and follows the party, not dangerous but makes all tasks more difficult due to buzzing, biting and making it difficult to see."
17,A weathered leather journal is found covered in small scratch marks. Insides is the diary of a treasure hunter. The writing quickly turns into ineligible scribbles after the hunter thinks they’re into something.
18,"You see a brilliantly colored bird flit through the trees ahead, cawing and crying through the jungle air. It lands on a branch and screeches at you, before flying off."
19,"You come across the rotting remains of a cart, alongside rusting armor and fetid bones. A tattered and unreadable banner hangs at the front of the procession. The line of bodies, carts and bones stretches almost a mile long through the forest. Nothing of value remains but bones and rot."
20,"The party passes an old tree with dozens of ancient tunes and carvings burned into its wooden surface. Occasionally, one of the runes glows a gentle blue, sending off pearlescent but harmless sparks, before going dark once again."
21,A trio of jungle cats gnaw on the body of an unidentifiable creature. They scatter into the woods as the party nears.
22,"A man who must have been alive mere hours before, lies dead in the jungle heat. He wears no armor, but is covered in deep, bloody wounds, and some type of poison fills his veins."
23,"At dusk, a young voice begging for help whispers to one member of the party. The voice seems to come from the tres themselves."
24,"The party is waken up to a high pitch scream coming seemingly from the surrounding trees, then silence."
25,An aged map is found rolled up. It’s a large map of the jungle with “LIES” written repeatedly in dried blood on it.
26,A small hunting party of aggressive Goblins chasing an animal crosses paths with the players.
27,A young Stegosaurus’ foot is seen trapped between two fallen trees. It cries out for its herd.
28,"A tribal dragonborn lays slumped against a tree holding his eviscerated abdomen, in a rasping grunt he says in draconic “opened, by bahamuts breath they opened them all!”"
29,"A large stone well is covered in vines and moss. Inside, it looks like it is filled with water. A DC 12 survival will tell you that it looks like drinkable water."
30,"A witch’s hut sits in a small clearing. When approached, the hut stands up on giant chicken legs and flees."
31,You enter into a clearing and shrieking starts. A patch of Shrieker plant is found a few yards ahead. The sound reaches to anything within 300 feet of it.
32,You feel your left elbow get caught on something sticky. A giant spider web has caught your arm. A Giant Spider’s eyes lock on you from 60 feet away.
33,"Another adventurer is spotted through the leaves struggling a against a creature. Getting closer, the man is seen getting constricted by a Giant Constrictor Snake. His sword and shield on the ground where he once stood."
34,"Walking past a large purple flower a puff of near invisible (DC 16 perception or nature) spores release, for the next 5 minutes each member hears a loved ones voice whisper that the path they are taking leads to doom and death."
35,You find five corpses hanging by their feet from the tree above you. All of the skin has been removed from their bodies. A few discarded items litter the ground beneath them. One of these items is a badge belonging to a soldier named Captain Seeyi Hopper. If any players have the soldier background they recognize the name as someone they once served with.
36,"As if from the shadows a weretiger steps out. It levels it’s golden spear head at a party members throat “you trespass on sacred ground, you have until the moon shows her face, then let the hunt begin”."
37,"You come upon a moss covered statue, fallen and showing the decay of centuries. A group of lemurs huddles together underneath to wait out the sudden downpour."
38,"A giant stone head, toppled from some long perch, lies before you. In it’s eyes, light flickers faintly. Could something be inside?"
39,"A pool of bubbling tar is in front of you. You see an animal go in and screech in pain, then silence. Suddenly, the creature’s skeleton covered in tar struts out and into the jungle as if nothing happened."
40,"While making your way through thickets of vines your scratched by long yellow thorns (dex, con nature to miss) although painless the veins near the scratch have turned a vivid orange."
41,A beautifully coloured bird flu along with the party with uncanny accuracy it copies everything said but in a whiney condescending tone.
42,"Plump white fruit hang from a tree overhead giving off a sweet and spicy aroma, biting into it lets the thousands of tiny spiders free."
43,"Following a trail footprints can be seen first clawed, then padded, humanoid then bird like each only has 4 prints before shifting."
44,"A bright pink pool sits peacefully in the shade, smelling like strong cheese. Distilling the water and healing algae makes for a potent potion."
45,"The path suddenly turns white and chalky but plants thrive, above roost giant bats."
46,"The jungle opens up upon a gorge with an narrow rope bridge spanning it’s width. Halfway across, the drums begin to beat their insidious rhythm."
47,"The jungle opens up upon a narrow gorge. As the first creature to crosses, a net of webbing shoots out from the gorge to ensnare them, dragging them down."
48,The jungle opens up upon a wide gorge. The walls are steep and what looks to be cave mouths litter the sides.
49,"The party comes across a river bed that has run dry. Embedded in the hard dirt are pieces of a wooden cart jetting out. The wood is old and water damaged, but show an attack by creatures of the forest."
50,As the party walks along their path they come across a wounded mating pair of jungle cats. One lays dying while the other stands over top of it to protect it. They will not peruse the party if they retreat.
51,Along the path ahead the party hears the sound of people arguing profusely. A small gathering of people are the source of the noise and on further inspection the party finds the group is arguing about last night’s watch. It seems during the night someone slacked on their guard duty and now something important is missing.
52,A square 10ft by 10ft cave can be seen ahead on closer inspection this is the mouth of a huge primitive statue head covers in vines.
53,"A buzzing hive can be seen hanging low in a tree, inside contains a honey so delicious it’s almost addictive."
54,"Taking a wrong step a party member steps on an active insect nest, what at first appear to be mear ants are actually a minute species of rust monster act quickly or lose all metal."
55,"Your come to a blackened patch of jungle everything seems scorched but thorny, if these thorns spill blood the plants almost instantly revive."
56,"The party come across a large flower now brown and brittle looking, it seems it would make for excellent tinder, just watch out for the poison maw hiding at it’s centre."
57,"A gentle splashing sounds near the parties chosen path, on arrival the pool is clean clear and brimming with fat fish, strange that the waterfall runs upwards."
58,Hanging from one bound ankle an irate Nobel dressed in the finest (and mostly useless) expedition gear money can buy swings before you
59,The strange thing about these jungles though mostly dry you can find deep caverns at any tiiiiiiiimmmmmmmeee.
60,"Swollen gourds hang ripe in a tree and on the ground around it, it’s a shame the poisonous frogs have such similar markings."
61,A jungle cat watches as her cubs attempts to kill a solitary goblin.
62,"The party comes upon an area of jungle where all the vegetation is decaying and beasts litter the ground dead. Oddly, none have been scavenged."
63,"You come across a clearing. A red-yellow-blue Bird of Paradise is dancing and flashing his feathers in an attempt to attract a mate. If any party member wears a combination of red/yellow, red/blue, or yellow/blue, the bird will attempt to “seduce” the player. If any party member decides to engage the bird of Paradise in a “dance off”, the party member can “win” IF proficient in Performance AND passes a DC15 DEX ability check."
64,"The party comes upon children playing Hide and Seek and are invited to play. If they accept (as the seekers), the skill checks are surprisingly high. The children are using magic to disguise themselves as trees, shrubs, flowers, etc."
65,"A lone elf sits on a tree stump, playing a flute. A few harmless animals dot the area around the elf. Listening to the music gives the party bonuses in the next encounter."
66,"A large, talking tree. The tree asks for assistance riding itself of a parasitic host and offers mushrooms that will shrink/grow the consumer."
67,A dim-witted troll named Gnasher is attempting to save his pet boar named Snouts from being eaten by a large carnivorous dinosaur. If they help the troll save his pet he can lead them to one of the hidden locations in Chult.
68,You find a sleeping halfling with a fishing pole on his lap.
69,You find a group of kobolds destroying the forest for pleasure.
70,You find a rich couple having a picnic.
71,You come across a section of forest smelling of rancid flesh with a hundred plus kobold and goblin skeletons suspended from the branches.
72,"You feel like something is moving, just beyond your vision. When you take a look behind you, you could swear that the terrain was a bit different. It looks almost like it was… rearranged."
73,"An ancient, rotted tree exudes an aura of nausea and paranoia. As you get closer, you can almost make out a discordant flute melody."
74,"A single, vibrantly-colored flower among a patch of withered ones. It almost seems to perk up as you draw near."
75,"As the characters are crossing a streambed or valley, a flash flood bursts upon the area. Characters must make a DC12 Survival check to get to a safe location."
76,The party comes across an abandoned wagon in the jungle. It is full of rations and supplies.
77,"The party comes up to a Way Station run by some natives. They will trade for rations, food, and adventuring supplies."
78,A 15ft totem carved to look like a beholder followed by a rok and finally a purpleworm with a large crystal set into it’s mouth marks a cave mouth.
79,"The party enter an area of strange trees almost no leaves at all, perception check to see the stealthing thri-kreen have them look more stick insect than mantis)."
80,While travelling through the jungle the party come across hundreds of holes 1 ft in diameter.
81,On a raised stone dias covered in creeping vines sit 5 golden cubes stacked haphazardly the vines have not touched them.
82,You stumble across a group of smugglers arguing about which tree they buried there treasure under. I’t appears that they haven’t noticed you.
83,"As the party track through the forest, a slow hiss of a voice can be heard by the lead member “tuuuurrrnnnnn froooommmm thhheeee paattthhhhh”."
84,While crossing a dried river bed more and more mud gathers around the legs of the party reducing speed by 10 ft until a short rest.
85,A lone shack stands in a clearing. A humanoid wearing a brightly coloured mask stirs a bubbling pot. For some rare ingredients they’ll trade you for there potion.
86,The party come to a narrow gorge made from dusty red clay. Hunters painted with the vidid clay are ready to ambush a distracted party or animal.
87,"A small cluster of blue gems breaks the surface of a stone wall, trying to pry them out scatters the small swarm of sapphire scarabs."
88,"A tribal statue stands tall and armed, but weathered all the stone smooth except its stone axe head that still holds a wicked edge."
89,"A cracked and erroded stone alter has been left to the jungles growth, creepers cover almost all of the blood stained stone."
90,"The path suddenly become clearer, almost tended. Crude traps line the path."
91,"Painted arrows lead the way through the trees, at the dead end make a dex save to avoid the boulder trap."
92,"A sweet melody follows the party, if seems a song bird wants something the party has."
93,"The humid air has taken its toll, the party should tend to their equipment before it rusts."
94,From the trees behind the party one of the members stumbles out clearly injured they point at their doppelganger “you have a imposter with you fools”.
95,A scattering of golden coins and ritual tools litter the mouth of a temple.
96,"The party comes across a long forgotten cache of weapons. Most of the mundane weapons have long rusted, but a single weapon lies at the bottom of the cache looks brand new. Maybe a magic item? Cursed?"
97,"The party feels a pleasant cool breeze, which is a welcome moment in the intense heat of the jungle. If the characters spot it, the air is coming from a couple of curious Chwingas that are hidden nearby."
98,"A stegosaurus is having a meal in the middle of the path. It has not seen the party, yet."
99,"A group of adventures have made camp, and if the party is kind, will invite them to camp with the group. They are experienced adventures who know of a nearby location in the jungle."
100,"The party hears a mighty roar. Behind them, a Tyrannosaurus rex comes barreling towards them. They only have a few seconds to react before it reaches them."

d100,Entry

1,"A book full of strange markings said to have been taken from the dead head of a cult. In reality, it was a book scribbled in by a toddler."
2,"The Left Hand of Maaug - A large gauntlet covered in blades. It weighs a good 25 lbs., and as such is all but impossible to wear."
3,The Bell of Beloved Fortune- Said to bring true love- to your best friends- when rung. Does not actually provide any romantic benefit to the owner.
4,"Seventeen Key Ring- Each key has a 5% chance of opening a lock you find. Once a key has opened something, it will not fit any other lock."
5,"The Loud Coin- This grimy copper coin, when thrown on the ground, loudly comments on everything within 60 feet of it in Common, giving an accurate (if unflattering) description of the room and all its occupants."
6,"Periapt of Porcine Attraction - This amulet makes the wearer adorable to pigs, boars, and similar beasts. The animals will not harm the wearer, nor are they romantically interested; instead, they simply cuddle up to the wearer and stare at them lovingly."
7,"Clod the Unburning - A large, roughly hewn table with ""CLOD WUZ HERE"" carved into one corner. The table is absolutely and utterly fireproof; even on the elemental plane of fire, it feels cool and firm. It's also a heavy table."
8,"A six-pack of potions tied together. A note on one of the potions reads ""This One Isn't Poisoned!"" The note magically moves between bottles when unexamined. The potions refill every evening at dusk."
9,A wand that can give a wish at who ever is targeted but it got mixed up with 20 other wands some possibly deadly.
10,Illegal alcoholic beverages spiked with Illithid blood. It is said to have a strong hallucinogen effect when consumed.
11,"Poisons derived from Beholder eyes, claimed to have the effects of the eyes they were brewed with."
12,"An unstable weapon, crafted from fusing multiple enchanted items together. The weapon is a powerful item, but has a 1d8 chance of shattering with a random spell effect cast upon the wielder (AOE spells affect wielder and all friendly/hostiles in range)"
13,"Pocket (dimension) sand - a small bag of sand that is enchanted to open a doorway to a pocket dimension. To use, scatter the sand on a surface of your choosing, and utter the command word (shashasha!). A doorway equal to the space the sand covers (no greater than 10x10 feet) opens for 1d6 minutes. The sand falls into the pocket dimension on use and is consumed. There is enough sand to cover a 10x10 foot space, or 4 separate 5x5 foot spaces. If used multiple times, each doorway leads to the same pocket dimension."
14,"8 stones in a small leather pouch. Red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, violet, black. Each casts a spell at its base level. The stones have qualities which show the amount of times they can be used, 'perfect' =3 uses, 'crazed' =2 uses, 'cracked' =1 use. Once the final use is expended the stone shatters into fine dust. To use a stone, throw it at the target. (Red (crazed), fireball; Orange (perfect), cone of truth; Yellow (perfect), daylight; Green (perfect), plant growth; Blue (perfect), create/destroy water; Indigo (crazed), command; Violet (cracked), animate dead; Black (cracked), power word annihilate)"
15,A dwarven heart on ice. Great for health potions!
16,Griffin Eggs for high class dining. They’ll leave you full all day.
17,Ancient Forgotten Currency - valuable collectible coins thought to be lost to the ages for a millennia. On sale today only!
18,A trained Quasit or Imp in a small cage.
19,"A vial of brass dragon's blood - Blood, still warm, taken and preserved the moment it was slain. Those who consume are said to be able to detect lies Cast Zone of Truth once. The user is marked by the magic effects, and gains a mark on their skin."
20,"Diamond Blade (+1) - A blade made of diamonds. The tang of the blade is silver, its pommel diamond as well. It reflects and refracts light and magic mysteriously. If on an attack if you were to add acid, cold, fire, lightning, poison, thunder, necrotic or radiant damage to your weapon damage dice, roll a 1d8, that added weapon damage dice type is changed to (1- Acid, 2- Cold, 3- Fire, 4- Lightning, 5- Poison, 6- Thunder, 7 - necrotic, 8- radiant)."
21,"Sphere of Great Divination - A black obsidian crystal sphere filled with a dark inky fluid. Inside the sphere is a small white dodecahedron with black text on each of its faces. The sphere gives off a faint divination aura. As an Action, it may be shaken and the resulting text on the dodecahedron may be read as it floats to the top of the sphere. Treat as the spell ""Augury"", but may only be used once per day, and has a 1d4 chance on use to give a random result or one the DM chooses."
22,"An advanced innovation in the new field of gunsmithing- the Apache Revolver. Treat as a revolver (if you're using 5e, the rules are on page 268 of the Dungeon Master's Guide) with a built-in knife and brass knuckles. Probably not called the 'Apache' revolver unless that's a place in your setting. And yes, it's not a very practical weapon, but it seems to be selling fast."
23,"An unremarkable-looking prayer candle. A precise wax-shaping technique has been used to hide magic sigils inside the body of the candle, such that when the wick is burnt it generates a field from which no sound can escape in a 12-ft radius. The candle burns out faster than normal, though, usually in about 10 minutes. It'll simply look like you and whoever else you're meeting with are praying silently, provided you aren't gesticulating at each other."
24,A phial of aboleth mucus.
25,"A small ivory replica of a king's crown. Its owner is able to participate in fractal chess, a version of the popular board game with no set number of players and an incomprehensibly large playing board. Players can communicate with each other, regardless of physical or planar distance, but can only do so when they make a turn, so messages by way of fractal chess are slow. There is only a single game going on, which started with its invention. There hasn't been a winner for thousands of years, but there are plenty of losers."
26,"A petrified toad. When held in the cusp of one's palm for a minute, the toad's body warms up and comes back to life. Whoever did so can command it to go to a location and stay there for up to 12 hours. Afterwards, it attempts to travel back to its user. The user cups the toad again for a minute until it petrifies, and they gain access to the toad's recent memories."
27,"A portable peephole fashioned like a circle of steel, about half as large as a human fist. The corrugated end is placed to the surface of a solid object, then rotated clockwise, causing it to sink into the surface. This creates a purely visual hole (it's a visual illusion, rather than an actual aperture) all the way through to the other end of the object. To remove, one would grasp the blunted tines on the outward-facing end and rotate counter-clockwise."
28,The services of a band of mercenary orcs.
29,"Prankster's gold, a liquid that turns into 100gp in recently minted gold coins for 24 hours after being poured out of the vial, before turning into an odorless gas. The vials are sold both individually and in bulk, and in different sizes. Understandably no one in this marketplace accepts gold coins as a form of tender."
30,A mirror or lens that can be used to see invisible things but has horrible glare when exposed to most light sources.
31,"Counterfeits of prestigious wines, spirits, cheeses, and the like. Well, surely they're counterfeits- otherwise there wouldn't be so much, sold at such discount prices."
32,"A 'Calinic breed' cat. Striped purplish, it can sense poison, and prefers to eat poisoned food, even if it is full. Luckily the cat seems to be immune to poisons, toxins, acids, and venoms. It will also eat oozes and slimes. Unfortunately, it otherwise behaves like a normal cat; there are very few people who want to take care of a cat and simultaneously find a Calinic's abilities useful at this market, so the seller is probably offering the cat at a lowered price."
33,"The deed to a tavern, hostel, or other innocuous city building; it has a large, clean basement with hidden side rooms, perfect for a secret laboratory, meeting room, vault, torture chamber, or what-have-you."
34,A scroll containing the secrets to finding and operating a magically hidden cavern base in the mountains.
35,"Maps of secret passageways in the underbelly of old cities or castles, sold next to maps of recorded passageways between the Underdark and the surface world. They have some warning symbols on them, but they probably don't account for every danger. The maps are unreadable to those who haven't purchased them."
36,"A writ granting one favor, within reason, from a criminal syndicate. Your payment helps keep them in business. The write can be magically tracked by them."
37,"A magical vellum parchment that can be wrapped around a limb to make it look like a wooden prosthetic, or around a weapon to make it look like an innocuous object of similar size and proportions."
38,"Binary poisons. Each is sold as a pair of dropper jars. Anyone who consumes an effective dosage of the first and second jars' contents within 36 hours of each other suffers the effects of the full, original poison or drug. There are multiple different poisons and drugs being sold in this fashion."
39,Dossiers of blackmail on city officials that magically update as more blackmail becomes known to the criminal underworld. The organizations that sell these magic envelopes censor information on the bribes they perform.
40,A trained mimic.
41,The Talking Fungi - a fungus that when eaten let's you speak and understand all languages for 1 Hour. When the effects ends you forget how to speak for 1 day.
42,A compass that points to the person who has the most money on them in a room. Doesn't work outside.
43,A dagger that always misses the target. Excellent for screwing over that special someone.
44,The Tainted-Love Necklace - A silver necklace with a purple gem on it. Put one drop of your blood on the gem. Anyone who wears this necklace will be permanently charmed by you until they take it off. Wearing the necklace long-term causes the wearer to become greatly addicted to being charmed (to the giver specifically but also to charm spells in general). VERY illegal; punishment is life in jail in Neverwinter.
45,"A fake-lactery (aka - A Fool's Phylactery). If you have the item on you (which is the size of your fist) and drop to 0 hp, your soul goes into the device and stays there for one long rest. Then you return into your body with 1 hp and 2 levels of exhaustion. The item breaks after."
46,"Back-water Love potions - Very effective (DC 15 wisdom save) and lasts for 1 week. The drinker falls head-over-heels (or heels-over-head if you'd prefer) in love with whoever gave them the drink. But there's 10% chance of the drinker becomes obsessive, stalker-ish, even violent towards other potential suitors. If this occurs, the drinker will stay this way for a month instead of a week."
47,"A mirror that, when hung in a room, let’s you see through door and walls in the reflection."
48,A kobold skull that grants you luck (1 re-roll of a d20 once per day). Being around kobolds will cause them to attack you en mass and with great rage.
49,A small orb you keep in your pocket. It gently buzzes when someone talks about you with hatred or malicious intent (provided you're within 250 feet of them).
50,"Torture Wine - Tastes like delicious fine wine. After a long rest, the user becomes overwhelmed with pain is unable to move or take any actions for 24 hours. During this time, they must make a wisdom save (DC 15) or they will be emotionally scarred from the horrible experience (-1 to charisma permanently)"
51,"Doses of ""Juiblex,"" - Phials of a viscous black liquid that causes catatonic euphoria and is extremely hazardous to one's health."
52,"A Clockwork Thing you Don't Know what it does - It's got sort of a brassy part and a springy part, and a glass tube, and the merchant is very insistent you keep it on the hush-hush that he's selling it."
53,"Cutting of Carnivorous living plants - Just think, planted in the right soil you could have your very own assassin vine in your garden. That'll chase the crows out."
54,A dark scrying glass - Only shows you things you're better off not seeing. This one came to the merchant after the previous owner looked in and fell into a suicidal depression.
55,"A Spherical puzzle box - Gives off a malevolent aura and certainly does not pass a ""Detect Evil,"" check. The Merchant assures you that it can be opened, but asks that you please not try it until you are well away from them."
56,"Elemental Spheres - Handheld glass spheres designed to be thrown and shattered to release the trapped (and quite upset about it) elemental inside. Their manufacture was officially prohibited after a number of grisly accidents, but there is always a market for an easily concealed destructive item."
57,"Lembas-style bread - An off brand Elvish baked good made by off-brand elves. They might just be goblins actually. Fairly sustaining, but tastes foul, as if it's mostly rancid suet."
58,"A perfectly ordinary apple. It's the only thing at this old woman's stall, but you don't quite trust it."
59,A skull that produces a constant flow of ash from its sockets; produces one pound of ash per minute.
60,"A caged black cat, whom has an aura of dark energy; all creatures who come close to the cat have their life force sapped by the cat's aura."
61,A glove that allows you to rewrite an entire document in an instant when you touch it with the glove.
62,"A cursed jumpsuit; the jumpsuit cannot be removed, and if the wearer tries to perform any sort of crime it has that crime done to itself. For instance, if one wearing the jumpsuit tried to commit arson, their hair would be set on fire; if they tried to steal from someone, an object of theirs would disappear and reappear in someone else's possession, et cetera."
63,"Bugbear saliva - when applied to the skin, makes the user take 2d4 damage but makes them resistant to fire, thunder, or acid damage for 1d6 hours."
64,Religious artifacts that have been banned in the region.
65,Books that have been banned in the region.
66,Contracts from a local assassin's guild.
67,"Forgery services - seal (search, impound, stop the bearer or this cargo at your own risk) / taxes paid / writ of safe passage."
68,"A stuffed Tabaxi Ranger, I call it Tabaxidermy."
69,An old gnome that speaks in a raspy whisper. Sells necromantic spell scrolls and offers discounts if the buyer can provide blood.
70,A nervous thief trying to sell a fake eye made of ivory with an opal iris that he stole from an old sea captain. Says that it brings bad dreams and whispers to him in the dark.
71,"A dwarf coated in what looks like a decade of dirt promises to be able to gain access to any building in the city, assuming money and cleanliness is no object."
72,"A Human with a mechanical arm claims they can crack any safe you bring them, for the right price and a share of the goods."
73,"Infernal Paradise - A painting depicting the infernal realms. If you splash it with blood, it opens a portal to said realms. If you are really unlucky some of the denizens will take the chance to come through the portal."
74,"The Old Flute - A strange, yet beautifully carved wooden flute. When played, it rouses the blood of allies and strikes a primal fear into the hearts of foes. When played under a Hunter's Moon, it will summon the Wild Hunt."
75,"The Eldritch Key - Sold by a rather haggard and nervous looking ex-thief. She claims that the key can open any lock even ones that are magically protected. However what she doesn’t tell you, is that the more you use it, the more you see a shambling abomination, crawling out of the dark, in the corner of your eye. Naturally nothing is there when you look. Maybe."
76,"The Two-Faced Shield - A large metal shield with the image of two screaming faces opposing one another. While equipped, when damage is successfully blocked the shield casts Cutting Words on the attacker. While equipped, when the user takes damage the shield casts Cutting Words on the user."
77,"A kabuki style demon mask. It gives the user advantage on intimidation checks, but disadvantage on persuasion checks, and any investigation or perception check that relies on vision, as the eye slits are too small (that could be solved with spending time to file the eye holes larger). You could either curse it, or have some trickster line the inside of the mask with sovereign glue."
78,"Unicorn Horn. They say it's a cure-all, but you'd have to be a real bastard to use it."
79,"A baby grimlock. Blind, mewling, and defenseless. Could possibly be raised to be a servant of some kind."
80,A Hand of Glory - Any not evil aligned creature other than the wielder within 30 feet of the lit candle is subject to a DC 18 Hold Person spell. A creature paralyzed in this way loses 3d6 maximum health and the beginning of each of their turns.
81,Powdered Roc's Beak. Consume to polymorph into a giant eagle.
82,"A ring of keys, each cloned from a different room in a nearby manse."
83,A favor from an oni.
84,A six-pack of Potions of Greater Healing. Three of them are actually disguised Potions of Poison. 50/50 chance of drinking either.
85,"A strange, brown bar, about as thick as a bar of soap. The vendor claims it comes from a far-off land, and requires a deeply arcane ritual to create. It has a slightly sweet smell; biting into it, you find it has an incredibly sweet taste. All other foods and desserts pale in comparison evermore after tasting the glory of the Chocolate Bar."
86,Eye of Spying - a mummified eye. Once attuned the eye can be placed in a location & the user can see what an eye sees
87,"Key of Mimicking - if key touches another key, it can take that keys shape"
88,"Lantern of the Sneak Thief - light from the lantern can not be seen past “x” range to anyone outside of the range, the area appear to be unlit"
89,Skeleton Key - key fits in & can unlock or lock almost any normal lock.
90,A pouch containing a blue powder that when sprinkled on an object makes it so that no spell or magic item can sense any magic or alignment from the object. The item still retains its magical abilities. The powder must be reapplied every 6 hours to maintain its effect.
91,"A powerful demon lord named Eas'thi'kaula who has been trapped in a tiny, unbreakable glass dome. It will plead to be released and to be allowed to do evil things."
92,"A bauble that looks as though there is a miniature universe inside. Looking into the bauble for too long can cause short-term madness, though tieflings are strangely immune."
93,A bar of soap that was supposedly made from the stomach of a Basilisk.
94,"A seemingly ordinary marble. When a creature touches the marble with its bare skin, it feels a great searing pain, but the marble doesn't actually physically harm them in any way."
95,The left foot of a hanged man who was innocent. If put in a cauldron full of hot water will turn the content in a superb soup - those who eat the soup will not need any more food for the day and will not suffer from cold environment effect.
96,"Myconid's Powder - literally pulverized myconids, great for empowering sleep-related spells. Side effect: the target of those spells will grow mushrooms on his body for a couple of days."
97,A small vial that contains the hairs of a princess. They are said to bring luck to young brides.
98,"A goblin skull, which wears a leather muzzle. When removed, he tells the story of his death in a sassy, high-pitched voice. Every time he starts, he changes some details to best fit his listeners (if it has an elf in front of it, the merchants in its story will be elves etc.)"
99,"The book of prayers of a priest violently killed. It is said to keep the ghosts away, but surely it stinks worse every day that passes."
100,"A leather glove. It is said to come from a pretty famous thief and to have brought his powers with it - every time the user removes it, there's a 10% chance one of his fingers will disappear, forever stolen by that thief's spirit."

d100,Entry

1,Two crew are fighting over who gets top bunk. They are at each others throats! Maybe this is about more than the bed?
2,There is a rat aboard your generally rat-free vessel. So far it has eaten half a sack of rice and 5 loaves of bread.
3,"Your navigation equipment is slightly miscalibrated. By the time you've noticed, you're already a day behind schedule."
4,You are about a day short on rations. The crew will survive but you've got to find a way to smooth it over with them or make sure they ever find out.
5,Two seagulls seem dead-set on making a nest at the top of one of the masts. This wouldn't be such a problem if they weren't pooping on the deck so much!
6,"You see a rift with a dead, dehydrated body on it. The rift has clearly been made on a deserted island. There is a coconut with painting on it that make it look like a face."
7,"You arrive on a site where two ships fought. You see dead bodies and ship carcasses, clothings floating and other objects. -you see two ships fighting at the horizon, you can either investigate or continue on your way"
8,Someone finds a dress on board. Rumor is that there is a naked woman on the ship somewhere.
9,"No more water, only Rum left."
10,The wind stops for exactly 13 minutes.
11,"There are reports of ghosts aboard the ship. Upon closer investigation, it turns out a crewmate was drying his laundry on the ship's rigging at night."
12,there's a pod of adorable dolphins swimming alongside the ship and the deck crew are distracted from their duties
13,"There’s a leak! Not a major one, but whenever it rains water drips directly onto your bunk. Right in the middle of your forehead."
14,There’s a shy siren trying to lure your ship onto the rocks. She’s not doing a great job and honestly it’s just kind of awkward.
15,A very cranky albatross with a broken wing is now stuck on the deck of your boat and will flap aggressively at anyone who comes near.
16,Crew shortage requires two 12 hour shifts and watch instead of the normal three 8 hour shifts.
17,Rain for days.
18,The 1st mate finds the crew's secret liquor stash that the captain was pretending he didn't know about.
19,A female stowaway is found. The superstitious sailors see this as a bad sign and are arguing whether or not to throw her overboard.
20,"A game of bets leads to a crew member becoming rich, but can he survive the night?"
21,The crap' goes around the ship and half of the crew are laid up for the week. It's up to the party to fill in as deck mates and runners while the healthy crew run the ship.
22,"A small pirate skiff harasses the vessel. It doesn't have equipment to board the high sided ship with, but they verbally abuse the party and crew for several days."
23,A crew member painting the bow has accidentally broken off the mermaid figurehead. The superstitious crew refuse to work until someone other than them carves a new one. With questioning they admit that it has to be someone else because none of them have seen a woman in proper lighting for years.
24,"A goblin stowaway has been found. He has his own rations, and he isn't stealing anything, but be still shouldn't be there."
25,"There is a heated debate about whether the vessel you are on qualifies as a ship or is merely a boat. No one seems to have a definitive answer, and everyone is too upset to work."
26,The crew discover the ship's name is spelled slightly differently on each side of the prow.
27,It turns out the Bottomless Barrel of Grog is actually a Bottomless Barrel of Bog and is filled with an endless supply of peat.
28,"Two sirens with inverse waveform voices are attempting to lure the crew to their death. Fortunately, their voices cancel each other out. Unfortunately, the resulting turf war is making it difficult to navigate."
29,"The trade winds have been cursed! For a full day, they will not fill the sails of any non-mercantile ship."
30,"You arrive at a sea known for its high salt contents. For 1d any dice of the dms choice amount of days,any food the water splashes on will be contaminated with a high salt content, causing said food to invoke thirst into players and npc’s who eat it"
31,"Your boat passes under a cloud that was enchanted by a wizard many decades ago. When any boat passes beneath it, the cloud immediately begins raining (not a thunderstorm, just an annoying ordinary rainfall). The cloud follows the boat until a new vessel passes beneath it."
32,Man overboard! A crewmember falls overboard during routine operations and now they need to be rescued before they drown or the waves pull them too far away to be spotted.
33,Cranium Rat infestation. The rats onboard are actually a form of sentient hive mind and are too crafty to be caught easily. They are however willing to parley.
34,"Whilst at port someone bought a howler monkey and smuggled it aboard, probably while both were drunk. It is now awake, proving its name is indeed accurate, and the top crow's nest is his now."
35,"A member of the Crew has appointed himself the entertainment coordinator and had dragooned numerous crew into his shenanigans. It seems he wants to put on a play and has roped everyone that can sing, dance, or play an instrument into it. While they seem to only practice during their times of rest, the rest of the crew wonders why anyone would make a play about a bunch of cats."
36,"A large water fowl crashed to the deck and appears badly injured by some predator. Some of the crew want to nurse the bird back to health, others think it's best to toss it into the sea and let nature take its course, a few think that's a waste of perfectly good bird meat and have started making some stuffing out of their biscuits."
37,"The crew spot a massive schooling of fish off course. The fish seem to leap into the air and the water is silvery with their skin. The crew is demanding that they take a few days netting, eating, and possibly drying or curing that treasure of fish."
38,"A small ship's sail boat is spotted, drifting through the sea. It is partly covered by a cloth waning for shade, while the mast only holds enough sail to keep the boat stable, and it sits fairly low in the water. Some of the crew are worried that there's something wrong with the boat, others point out the duty of all sailors to recuse those in need, and the captain seems to recognize the sail boat's (or at least a marker on the mast)."
39,"Fog. Dense, heavy fog for days that inhibits navigation, dampens the spirits, and makes for a nail biting encounter with a small reef."
40,Several ropes are found to be frayed or otherwise in disrepair. Should the captain order the crew to use what they have and risk breakage or sail with half sails and fall behind schedule?
41,The first mate turns out to be fresh from land with only theoretical knowledge of the job. He/she seems competent enough but the crew might not take kindly to it.
42,A dispute breaks out between the crew over some possibly loaded dice.
43,"Someone pooped on the poop deck, and ya gotta clean it up (AGAIN!)."
44,A merfolk vendor tries to sell you fire coral necklaces. The coral is still alive...it hurts so bad.
45,A sea serpent vomits on the deck. It had the whole damn ocean. Why?
46,"A boulder sized iceberg hits the boat. It's loud and scary, but no real damage can be observed."
47,You awake one morning to find that your ship has stopped. Apparently one of the night crew fell in love with 'the Muse of the Sea' that night and is anxiously awaiting her return.
48,"Your ship comes upon pod of mutilated whale carcasses. The smell is awful, and the crew is on edge, unsure of what creature might have caused such destruction. Rumors begin to spread."
49,"A crew member pulls up a message in a bottle requesting rescue. The ink seems fresh, and the bottle does not appear to be worn from being at sea. However, according to your maps, there are no islands nearby."
50,"Your helmsman apparently cut himself accidentally while steering the ship. This wouldn't be a problem, except one of the sailors insists 'the bloody helm' is a bad omen and wont let anyone near the wheel."
51,"The new cabin boy has not gotten his sea legs yet, and some of the more veteran members of the crew are growing increasingly annoyed by the sounds of vomit off the side of the ship."
52,The crew member in the crows nest has gone almost entirely blind. They keep yelling 'LAND HO!'
53,"You find a stowaway, who only speaks a language from a faraway place."
54,"There is a small hole in the ship, requiring immediate repair."
55,"One of the sails gets a tear in it, and the ship sails at half speed until its fixed."
56,An entire cannon went missing and no one can find it.
57,"The crewman are obsessed with a dice game, and are betting away all of their rations."
58,"A band of seagulls is intent on following the ship. This far from land, they're certainly not turning back, and have gotten greedy in their pursuit for food.. food which is disagreeing with their seagull digestion."
59,"The ship's crew are uncertain about your dialect and keep misusing commonplace words. Amongst other issues, they're calling for 'mutiny' several times a day when they really mean 'mealtime.'"
60,"Someone left all the chamberpots at the harbor after taking them there for cleaning. The captain is insistent that nobody uses his 'fine, artisan' boxes or barrels, and due to 'fine, artisan' 'decorations', squatting over the edge of the ship is.. inconvenient. This is combined with a witch hunt over who forgot the pots and who keeps crapping in the waste barrel in the kitchen."
61,"The crew is obsessed with a game called 'slapball' from their native land, where a barrel is put at the side of the ship and a ball is slapped with an open palm to land in it from the opposite side. If you miss, into the ocean you go to retrieve it. The crew is very well practiced in this game and are rather insistent that the party plays and act deeply offended if refused. However, once the party plays enough to be annoyed, they laughingly admit that it's just something they do to tease landlubbers."
62,It's a hot day and the sails don't catch a single breeze of wind. It's up to the players to either wait it out or create some form of energy to keep going.
63,The only musical instrument on board breaks.
64,A game of dice ends in two crewmates fighting.
65,"There is rumor of mutiny on board, perhaps it is all a misunderstanding?"
66,"A huge storm breaks out, not dangerous, but everybody is tensed and the mood is bad after it."
67,One of the crew is singing a song that doesn't belong on a ship and nobody can find out where he is. Also he is super off key.
68,"A small hole has formed in the deck in front of the door to the captain's quarters. It is just small enough to not be worth fixing, but just large enough to catch people's ankles 1/3 of the times they enter without specifically avoiding it."
69,The ship you chartered has a crew that is much less experienced than they first let on. Mistakes are frequent and the severity of the consequences are hard to determine.
70,"There is a small hole in the boat just above the waterline. It can't be properly repaired unless docked and it was just noticed several days out. The boat won't sink from it so long as someone keeps throwing the buckets of sea water overboard, but it has to be done day and night, affecting both morale and overall efficiency of everyone on board."
71,"One of the passengers on the ship is a wizard who refuses to stop conducting his alchemical experiments, regardless of how potentially corrosive/explosive his concoctions are, regardless of the conditions at sea."
72,"Multiple giant squid are following the boat, they're a few hundred feet behind and don't seem to be catching up, but its got everyone on edge."
73,"A sickly blue/green/yellow fog rolls over the ship. In a few minutes it's gone, but it has dissolved every piece of glass that was on the ship."
74,"A large group of Merfolk are blocking the shipping lane you need to take in protest of some political/environmental strife. A different route must be taken, or a lot of minds need to be changed about their cause."
75,"A giant sea urchin (about half the size of the boat) has attached to the bottom of the ship, slowing it down and causing difficulty steering. It seems quite content to just stay connected."
76,"You see, from very far away, what appears to be a powerful storm sorcerer and what is likely a Circle of the Land (Coast) Druid in the middle of a magical fight. They are right in the middle of the path to your destination."
77,The best way to get to where you're trying to go gets very close to a number of islands that have a very religious group of people on there. They have a habit of stopping ships so that they can try and convert those on board although they're otherwise harmless.
78,"The captain's pet parrot is old, senile, and can't see very well anymore. Anything small enough that it can pick up it thinks might be food, and if it can't eat it, it will end up dropping it wherever it happens to be at the time, even if that's in the water."
79,Part of the wood used in construction of the ship you're on was made from a dead Treant. Plant life your ship comes across with any intelligence does not take kindly to your boat.
80,"A spectral school of ghost fish are following the ship. Though they cause no damage, they scare off living fish, and emit both ghastly light and eerie noise at all times of day. Some have even taken to 'swimming' on the deck and in the halls."
81,A small fire breaks out. Might have been a freak incident- no one will cop to having started it on accident or purpose.
82,"Plumes of ash and leaping gouts of lava roil out from an underwater vent close to the surface, as the start of a new island slowly births itself close to the ship. Chunks of hot ash and rock arc through the air, with the ship potentially under the area of effect."
83,One of the crew members is collapsing in fits of uncontrollable laughter throughout the day. Might be a bad omen.
84,"The crew keeps spotting flotsam, in greater and greater quantities as the day goes on. They eventually find some valuable-looking crates adrift on the waves, which happen to contain... cross-section termite mounds, with hundreds of termites still trapped inside. Opening the crates releases them onto the ship."
85,"Strange pollen carried by a strong wind sets off the extremely severe allergies of a few important crew members, causing an overall reduction in workforce potency until they can get back on their feet."
86,"A dog with a litter of pups is found in the cargo hold, subsisting on the food stores."
87,"Nobody brought buckets. Was it your job? Steve's? Either way, no buckets!"
88,The crew gets cat called by some mermaids.
89,The cook runs out of spices the food is extremely bland.
90,"The ship has run out of limes, increasing your chance of scurvy by 10%."
91,"An Albatross shows up, not seeking food or anything. Just watches from the port bow."
92,The rope wears on the main sail must be replaced. This could take all day.
93,A lantern has gone missing for the navigator and a new one must be found in storage. This could take a few hours.
94,"Three idiots decide to throw a mutiny, just those three idiots. They think they can take the captain and anyone else."
95,A Kingsguard ship stops your vessel for an inspection.
96,A giant crab has found its way on board and the crew are having a hard time wrangling it without getting snapped.
97,One of the crew brings it to your attention that your ships colors are not welcome in the waters you're sailing.
98,The nights pot of dinner is dropped and spilled on the floor. Rations will be replaced with rum.
99,"A crew member falls from the rigging and breaks his leg, leaving a small repair needed on deck and a crew that's a little on edge."
100,You discover an uncharted island!

d100,Entry

1,A carved stone pillar is poking out of the sand dunes. The markings on the pillar are not in the local language.
2,"A beautiful oasis, with people and green palms surrounding a huge pool of cool water. The tempting scene lacks clear borders, is this real or could this be a mirage? And is there something more sinister behind this idyllic place?"
3,The party comes up to a small garden of cacti and succulents being cared for by a dessert Druid. She doesn’t get company often and will have conversations with the plants. She’ll offer the party some cactus juice. Anyone who drinks it and fails a saving throw will trip out for a couple hours.
4,"A sandstorm forces the party to take shelter, they hear voices screaming in the wind."
5,"A bell chimes. Only those failing a Wisdom saving throw hear it, but they are compelled to seek it out."
6,"The side of a huge dune the party are walking along the side of for shade falls down, risking burying the party."
7,"The party comes across a group of nomads. They are bandits but offer the party their hospitality for three days, at which point they will decide how best to rob the party."
8,A single purple flower in the desert sands. If checked for magic it radiates a low aura of alteration magic which dissipates if picked.
9,"Sand clouds begin to resolve to a wind rigged skiff, then to a group of elves in pursuit."
10,"Rain begins to fall, tendrils reach up all around you and flower within seconds, releasing a beautiful scent. Constitution save to remain conscious and start to remove yourself from the flowering field."
11,"The party finds a construction made of junk: a small citadel, home to friendly scavengers, who offer to aid the players, and provide some hospitality. Should they accept it, a sandstorm occurs, and the citadel is attacked by crazy raiders on horses. A lovely day."
12,"The party comes across a couple rocks, arranged in a circle. In the center, there is a precious gem. If they take it, the rocks start to rise up, and slightly curve inwards as they do, threatening to trap and suffocate whoever doesn’t escape. It takes a CR 25 STR check (aka someone needs to have +5 STR) to break the sandstone."
13,"There is an area with several small cracks on the floor. The party must go through it to get to their destination, but every turn they spend in there, 2d6 hostile scorpions emerge from the ground."
14,"The party is greeted by camel merchants. The animals are docile and follow simple orders, costing 50 gold each."
15,"Each player has to make a CR 17 Perception save. On a fail, they see a large lake, with crystal clear waters, surrounded by a couple meters of vegetation. It’s all a mirage, though, and the lake is actually quicksand."
16,The party crests a dune to see a field of bones stretching for hundreds of yards. A DC 20 perception check reveals thousands of red ants swarming the skeletons.
17,"A hungry lioness can be seen peeking over the top of the next sand dune. The rest of her pride is lying further down, in wait, ready to sprint around to encircle the party and cut off points of escape."
18,"The party hears a sound somewhere in between slithering, scraping, and the rush of an object through the air. As they crest the next sand dune, they see a gigantic sand worm rushing past, oblivious to their presence."
19,"The party hears the sound of war drums, seemingly very close. It’s actually the drum sand that it turns out they were walking on."
20,"A rather sad flumph is seen floating about the desert. If it asks for help, it states that it wandered too far away from its cave home, and is now lost. Once the party finds any kind of cave entrance, the flumph will thank them and will return to its subterranean life."
21,A crashed and stripped airship from a battle long ago. A group of scorpions have claimed the remains for the shade.
22,"A broken sand skiff abandoned by the native lizardfolk nomads. They left behind 3 glass lenses to start fires, two spears, and half a barrel of water."
23,A pack of hyena can be seen chasing a wounded lioness. She runs to the party in desperation.
24,The dried and sun bleached bones of a dragon are being worshipped by a group of dragonborn. They are willing to trade as long as you are respectful.
25,A bottled djinn is found in the skeletal remains of a human nomad and his pet monkey.
26,"The party comes across a caravan of several camels carrying all kinds of goods, food and treasures, but there’s no one leading them. If the camels are stopped or the party tries to touch the goods, a group of humanoids with bodies made out of sand emerges from the dunes."
27,You come upon a cave in a dry lakebed. Ten preserved tritons in caked mud stasis are preserved inside from when this arid land once had water.
28,You meet a two Ogres that refer to themselves as ‘Border Patrol’. They can be easily bribed and the party can easily sneak by later.
29,You meet a group of 30 refugees lost and thirsty in the desert. The law of the nearby city forbids you from giving them water.
30,A mad gnome is farming peppers and cactus out in the desert. She sells pepper bombs that do 1d4 damage and has a 50% chance to blind. The pickled pepper jam is also delicious.
31,"You come across a series of large tents with a bonfire in the middle. Large, camel-drawn cages and guards adorn the area. You’ve come across a slave auction."
32,The party comes across an old abandoned Legionnaire fort with scratch marks all around it. Pushing open the door reveals hundreds of dried out human corpses and bones. The well still has clean water miraculously enough.
33,"A lizardfolk jumps out of the sand drawing his blade. ‘Leave your possessions if you don’t want to taste my blade! My knife is coated in deadly poison.’ he taunts as he draws his forked tongue over the blade to intimidate you. One dumb moment later, his eyes widen as he realizes his mistake."
34,"On there journey through the desert, the party encounters a group of raiders traveling back from the their last raid at a nearby Temple."
35,The party discoveries a strange tree in the desert surrounded by a small pond.
36,The party encounters a small group of followers from a near by village that follows the rays of the sun god.
37,"In the middle of the desert the party finds a colossal tower that has been built into the rock bed beneath the sand. Once the party explores the tower, they find an updated map of the desert as well as a uncommon magical item."
38,A scorpion that communicates telepathically. You learn that it was once a halfling warlock who betrayed his patron for a gallon of water and was transformed. He asks you to help him break the curse.
39,A solar eclipse reveals a nearby temple that is invisible in sunlight. If players are inside the temple when the eclipse ends they will be unable to leave the same way they came in.
40,The group discovers the petrified roots of an ancient tree spanning 1/2 mi2 at the surface. Well cut slices of the roots are highly prized and incredibly valuable. Chunks and chips are worth next to nothing. Making these slices requires specialized equipment or magic.
41,You discover a small oasis. Drinking the water will cause all the hair on the characters body to fall off.
42,A good old-fashioned sandstorm. Lasts 2d4 hours. Party must make a CR 10 WIS save each hour or become hopelessly lost.
43,A circle of vultures feast on a dead baby elephant. It appears to have died of natural causes.
44,Fire spouts shoot out of the sand randomly dealing 1d4 fire damage to the party.
45,You see a beautiful woman dancing across the sand. She’s singing to herself and motions for the party to come dance with her. As soon as she’s touched she collapses into sand and a slight giggle is heard on the wind.
46,The party encounters two barrels of water. One is a mimic.
47,A sand covered rock formation is actually a slumbering Earth Elemental. Be quiet.
48,"Ribs of an ancient boat. Nomads use it for shelter, and casks of old water are hidden half buried in the sand."
49,You find a large male human barbarian named ‘The Scorpion King.’ He has four pet scorpions.
50,"Four sand dwarves pop out of the sand in ambush. They thought you were raiders. They have dried, spiced meat to trade."
51,The party comes across a sand filled Warforged. Cleaning it out results in it coming to life and becoming your body guard.
52,You come across a wet patch of sand that smells like cinnamon. Harvesting the spicy smelling sand nets you 50 gp per pound at the next populated area.
53,A buzzard Aarakocra begins to follow the party. Yelling ‘Hurry up!I’m starving over here!’
54,"Three nomad chariots surround the party. Just when things look grim one of them calls off the attack. As they ride off into the dunes he yells, ‘Now we’re even!’ The party has no idea what they did to deserve it."
55,"The party sees in the distance a strange looking large boulder. When/if they approach, the can appreciate a huge sculpted hand, either made out of stone or jade or any other material. It may have enemies nesting on it, or traps around it."
56,"Sinking sand that requires a perception check to spot, dex and strength saving throw to get out of."
57,"An oasis rigged with magical traps. There are flowers and plants that investigating with nature checks seem to be good picks for herbalism or eating. They might be, but picking them triggers a fire ball or poison gas trap from the base of the stalk."
58,"A sudden pit of sand, cone shaped, that takes a dex check to avoid falling into, or repeated dex checks to get out of. As they struggle to the top, the giant wolf spider at the bottom throws sand, at players, giving them disadvantage on all dex checks."
59,A pack of 3d4 scavenging gnolls rummages about some old metal.
60,A mummy has awakened beneath the ground. Dead plants and desiccated animal corpses litter the area. Odd whispers float on the wind. Anyone sleeping here will be disturbed by vague and dark dreams of something calling…
61,"A trio of commoners standing on large rocks beckon you over frantically. In the area lurks an injured bulette, waiting for them to come down."
62,"You walk upon a battle, as a force of 4d4 ostrich-riding kobolds harries a smaller amount of goblins."
63,"A massive tortoise, 30ft tall, walks the land, with what looks like scaffolding upon it’s shell. Atop, a small camp with notes and food, welcoming visitors and encouraging them to leave something for the next ones."
64,"A small hut lies in the distance, next to a large cavern in the ground, chambers and tunnels connecting them. A pair of burnt skeletons lie at the entrance."
65,"At a grove of reddish sand, odd trees and a white flag, a nestle of tentacles wave in the earth. If approached, a xorn rises and offers to trade meat and water for gems and metal."
66,"A tavern sits in a conspicuously unappealing location. The inhabitants are terrified and confused, because hours before they and the building were both in the center of Silverydeep. There’s food enough, but they talk of finding safety."
67,"A couple of black pools besmirch a valley. Rolling 1d4, the pools are made of tar, oil, onyx or black puddings."
68,"A small delegation approaches you, informing you that intrude upon lands owned a local lord, and to leave, be arrested or brought forth to appeal. The lord in question is a black half-dragon, quite cruel and offering work for leniency."
69,A male fire Genasi and two winged female Tieflings are seen attacking two giant tarantulas. They won’t survive the battle without your intervention. In thanks they give you an amulet of fire resistance before they collect the tarantula’s venom and disappear through a portal back to Hell.
70,A caravan of silk traders run into you and offer to hire you to supplement their guards. You’re headed in that direction anyway
71,The party stumbles into the 40 foot funnel of a giant ant lion larvae. It grapples the first PC that comes into its grasp. Dealing 30 damage forces it back into a tunnel to hide. Treasure can be found near the surface where it spit out the inedible pieces.
72,"The party finds an old abandoned caravan that was once attacked by raiders. Arrows, silks, weapons, armor, and preserved spices can be salvaged."
73,"You find a zombie bound by chains, wards, and radiant magics in an ominous cave. The gem in his chest is a prison for a powerful demon. He offers you empty promises to free him. Four scrolls and a spell book can be found by looking around."
74,A beggar and a princess can be seen on a flying carpet off in the distance.
75,"The party comes across a group of feral camels. If they attempt to capture one, the camels turn on them, using kicks and spitting in their attacks."
76,"Desperate for food/water (or perhaps just negligent) a party member attempts to cut open a cactus, only to painfully learn that that specific type of cactus reacts to touch by forcefully ejecting it’s needles."
77,"A domed tomb with two sphinx-shaped gargoyles as guardians. The tomb holds some gold, spice, salt, and some honey."
78,Drow raiders fire poisoned bolts at the party. They then disappear into quicksand. They will return at night to attack anything still in the area.
79,You find three yurts and some sheep. The hunters on horseback return with their kill… their eagles following behind them. Pray you have alcohol.
80,A Mongolian death worm spits 1d4 acid damage at the party before retreating into the sand.
81,A lightning strike near the party facilitates blue crystals shooting out of the sand. They do 1d4 piercing damage if growing through a living thing. The shards constantly glow and make good light sources at night.
82,"You find an old abandoned mine shaft. The rubies, mithril & silver ore you find could be useful. You should give the old prospector a proper burial since the map to his buried horde is in his pocket."
83,"An oasis comes into view. Unbeknownst to the players, it is the entrance to an aboleth’s den."
84,"An awakened camel greets the party and tries to sell them rice and dates. It can only use its mouth to carry said food, leading to it being covered in slobber."
85,All party members must make CON saves against heatstroke if day or hypothermia if night.
86,"You find a small building, inside is an altar with a dead King and the head of his vizier. There’s a book the king was reading from in his lap. Reading it deals 1d4 poison damage per page touched."
87,A mechanical bird leads the party to a well. There’s a flock of goats but no shepherd. The bird keeps signaling to the well…
88,A group of lizardfolk are harvesting prickly pears. They sell them for 5 copper.
89,The party approaches an overhang near a valley. The valley floor is littered with diamonds…and giant venomous snakes. Their only natural predator is the giant rocs of the nearby mountains.
90,You approach a sealed bandit cave. Behind it you hear a man trying to remember the password to the cave door…’Open paprika? Open dill? Open…’ You then hear 40 bandits on horseback approaching.
91,You run into 10 pirates fleeing a cyclops. One introduces himself as Sinbad and has items to trade.
92,You find an adobe hut village in ruins. Devoid of humans you realize their fate once you reach the other end of town and come upon 40-60 human size pillars of salt.
93,The party stumbles to the base of an ancient mesa just in time to witness the mating flock of many desert griffons. They land in pairs on the mesa above you to nest.
94,The party comes across a circled up caravan under siege by 1d4 kobolds riding hyenas.
95,"You follow a river, and the only point shallow enough to cross is infested with crocodiles, some giant. A nearby priest offers crossing, in return for a special payment."
96,A large set of tracks leads from a fresh carcass into a cave one hour away. A skilled tracker might notice the tracks belong to a fearsome tyrannosaurus rex.
97,"At night, you come accross three strange gnomes holding hands. If they notice the party they disappear in a flash of light. If left to finish, they still disappear but have left a circle of 51 electrum tokens."
98,"A trio of golem stand atop a large white hill, one of steel, one of rock and one of ice. They each have seven eyes on their front."
99,"You meet a tribe of gnoll who claim to have given up fighting and seek hermitage, but they’ve been harassed by misled settlements for years due to other tribes nearby. Can you settle this issue without violence?"
100,"A sand-storm brews into a massive cyclone. At it’s epicenter, a face appears in the sand and offers to take you anywhere in the world the sky can reach. Doing so may hurt, however, because landing will be up to the players."

d100,Entry

1,Bleak Star
2,Azure Dream
3,Finality
4,Finisher
5,Magnar
6,Cosmic Ascension
7,Final Words
8,The Highroler
9,Twilight Tempest
10,Shining Malice
11,Dawn Reach
12,Blood Spiller
13,Skull Splitter
14,Tyrant's Demise
15,Crimson Immolation
16,The Whispering Wind
17,Silence
18,Sadium storm
19,Harmony
20,Pain
21,Quasar
22,Soul biter
23,Callous Cleaver
24,Dark Omen
25,Lifeender
26,Judgment
27,Gravedigger
28,The Euphoria Delirium
29,Deus Vult
30,Author of Death
31,Hereafter
32,Shield Breaker
33,Elysium
34,Widow pulsar
35,Heart Seeker
36,Abyssal lurker
37,Rapture's Gate
38,Stonesplitter
39,Thunderchild
40,Diplomacy
41,Icebane
42,The Dancing Edge
43,Bleeding Heart
44,Sloth’s Bane
45,Magnum opus
46,Orcbane
47,Oblivion
48,Demonica
49,Valor Heart
50,Sacrifice
51,Unhappy Ending
52,Kingmaker
53,Shadow Ravage
54,Arcanium Annihilator
55,Cleaver
56,The Maw
57,Abaddon
58,Dire Vanquisher
59,Shard of Odium
60,Stromen Richter
61,The Remorseless
62,Innocence' End
63,Ice Finger
64,Justice
65,Vantum Phoenix
66,Gleaming Death
67,Reaver
68,Last Rites
69,Head Hunter
70,Tranquility
71,Herald of Mercy
72,Screaming whisper
73,Curse Crusher
74,Heartseeker
75,Nightweaver
76,Astral defender
77,Nova
78,Black Scarlet
79,The Blackwind
80,Vengeance
81,Ravenous Destiny
82,The Crimson Solace
83,Dragonsbane
84,Heaven's Grace
85,Devilish Dicer
86,Awakening
87,Lord's Will
88,Backblade
89,Gore
90,Holy avenger
91,The Ending
92,Void's kiss
93,Black Razor
94,Scarlet Rain
95,Iron Steed
96,Blood Drinker
97,Time Raider
98,Red Fang
99,Fate's Last Dance
100,Silence of the Dawn

d100,Entry

1,"Wanted Dead or Alive - Bonecrusher, Orc Chieftain to the south! Warning: very heavily armed and dangerous. Has many henchmen. Reward: 1,000gp'"
2,Missing: a large turtle named Hubert who has escaped from the Caster's School of Polymorphing. Please return if found!'
3,"Chicken Wrangler Needed! Some jerks smashed my coop and now 100 chickens are loose. 1GP/chicken to return them, no questions asked.' (Poster is True Neutral witch in old haunted forest; all the chickens have been enlarged.)"
4,"Need men to form a small honor garrison for the banquet I am holding in my manor. Important people are involved, so discretion is mandatory. 200GP per person, payed upfront. No questions asked. (All the guests are vampires.)"
5,The book store has a shipment of rare books coming in and needs people to help unload them. Will pay 100gold per person and not responsible for any injuries incurred on the job. (Caution: dangerous magic and pet books around.)
6,Exterminator needed: I've got a mess of rats in my basement. Bring me 10 rat tails in return for payment. (Listed address has no basement and owner has no rat problem. The advert has a typo and should point to a house further down the way.)
7,"Exterminator needed: There's a bunch of noise coming from the attic. Like chains or moaning or something. It's probably those damn raccoons again. I would have my husband look into it, but the lazy oaf up and died on me. Payment dependent on work done. (Listed address has no attic, but does have a basement with a rat problem. Murdered husband is haunting the house, bring proton pack.)"
8,"Strong Swimmer Needed! My simpleton apprentice left my ore cart unattended on the bridge and the blasted thing tumbled into the river! Hopefully the ore is still in there somewhere, I'll pay gold to anyone who can get me my ore!"
9,"Sick Grandmother: My grandmother is sick and needs a shipment of medicine. Our normal courier has gone missing, so we desperately need it delivered. Expedited fee available with a bonus upon delivery (Grandma makes a mean elven bread.)"
10,Squirrel Hunting: A squirrel has been seen in town stealing jewelry from citizens. We think there may be more than one squirrel involved -- they always head west after the theft. They need to be captured or killed; a bonus available if stolen items are returned.
11,Earrings Stolen: My wagon was robbed by bandits in the eastern forest. Among the items taken where heirloom earrings that were given to me by my mother. Please find them. Reward available.
12,"TEST SUBJECT NEEDED! We at the Barrington Bakery (insert your own name) are looking for subjects to test out our new magical breads. We infuse magic into the mixing process for a, hopefully, tasteful bread. You will need to taste each bread, and have our scholar review the side effects. You will be paid per day."
13,"Lost Arrow: While practicing with a bow, my son lost a trophy arrow (he was not supposed to use). He was practicing in the Northern plains and thinks the arrow went into the forbidden forest. Please retrieve this arrow. As an alchemist, I will pay in healing potions."
14,"Goblin encampment: A goblin encampment has appeared in the Southern part of town across the ravine. They've been there for days and don't seem to be aggressive, but we can't be so sure. Find out what they're doing -- if they're a threat, please dispatch with them."
15,"Wandering Skeleton: Wandering Skeleton seen on the outskirts of town. It appears armed with a sword, shield and horned helmet. Dispatch this skeleton and we'll offer you 10% off anything in town."
16,100 List: Help! Local bard needs assistance creating a list of 100 dirty jobs no one wants to do. A small payment will be available as well as your name as a contributing author in the book I'm writing.
17,Kobold Flour: Local baker seeks Kobold Flour for the upcoming Monster festival. This specialty item can only be found in Kobold encampments. Will pay 10gp per pound (maximum of 100 pounds).
18,The (Insert bar or inn name here) is looking for a bard to entertain the crowds on Thursday Nights (mug for a copper night).
19,Merchants looking for armed security to escort us to (Insert town or city name here).
20,"(Insert townsfolk name here), our beloved mushroom forager, has not returned from the forest. He was last seen four days ago. Need help finding him(her?)!"
21,Lost mail! Important documents might have been intercepted. The currier I've been expecting has not arrived. Please inquire at the City Hall.
22,"The town of (insert neighboring town) has challenged us to our annual match of Shinty (or similar sport). Let's show them who's best, and get that trophy back where it belongs!"
23,"Lady Clarissa will read your future in the cards. I know you will show up. Where am I? Don't worry, dear. Fate will guide you."
24,The Imperial Army needs your skills! Join us to fight the good fight!
25,"Koboliam Ore Needed: A local blacksmith needs Koboliam Ore, which is only found in the Myriad caves to the North. Once a Kobold stronghold, this abandoned cave is full of traps and possibly other dangers -- will pay top gold for each block of Ore."
26,"Burial Escort needed: Our recently deceased father needs to be buried in the family lot, six miles north through the badlands. A small party escort is required in case of trouble."
27,"Bandit Kidnappers! Our beloved daughter has been captured by Bandits! They have not made any demands, but we want her back. They were last seen Northwest of the old tower -- a reward for our daughter (alive), plus a bonus for the head of each bandit."
28,Family Bandits! My son and his two friends have left the village to become bandits. Find them and teach them the error of their ways. Reward if they return -- must be alive.
29,Kubo's Strings: Local bard Kubo lost his musical strings during an encounter with a small dragon. The dragon has the magical strings attached to it's teeth. Please retrieve the strings and you will be rewarded with a +1 AC enchantment to your armor!
30,"Flying Monkeys: During a recent storm, Flying Monkeys came and took our poor family dog. They live in the Julliad mountains. Please bring back our precious dog -- our children are lost without them. We don't have much in money, but as farmers we can reward you with rations for all your travels."
31,Magnificent Seven: Our villagers overheard bandits who plan on raiding our town in one week's town. We seek seven or more strong warriors who will help defend us.
32,Troupe of traveling bards need a few strong individuals to help schlep and set up our equipment on our world tour. Can pay in booze and lodging.
33,Detail-oriented individuals needed to go door-to-door to market my magical floor-sucker-cleaner. Commission based.
34,Need young fit person to shovel snow from my walkway (if high summer. In winter substitute with 'mow grass' or something else appropriate. Employer is an elderly individual from a far-off land who has enchanted their property to be more like their home country.)
35,"Book keepers needed! Not really. Bandit-wizards have been trying to steal from my personal library of arcane books. Need tough, preferably illiterate, bodies to defend collection until I can secure safer storage."
36,"Tower Demolition Sought: The four story bell tower has been deemed by the city council as a stain on the communities reputation, as it was built with ""ill-gotten"" funds by the recently disgraced and now former mayor, Cornul Glassen. The council is offering 500 gold to anyone who can reduce the bell tower, which was dedicated in his honor, to rubble without loss of life or other property in the town square. Plans must be approved by council before work can begin."
37,"Come join us for the first annual bucket festival! Bring a bucket and you favorite drinks to join in the festivities. Meet out back the delapidated house on the edge of town at any time. You know the one, you've seen it in your dreams."
38,"Needed bartender. Looking to employ a bartender for my inn, The crooked arrow. Must be able to listen to political rants on the slower days. NO GOBLINS"
39,"The well water has started tasting funny, someone should look into that."
40,"LOST Young boy named James, he has been missing for over a week and was last seen going of to play by the river. Reward if found."
41,"Local spell caster looking for lab ""assistant."" Intelligence not required, but a high resistance to pain appreciated."
42,Mole Dispatch - a group of unusually large moles wreck our fields! We are in dire need of a someone who is getting rid of those pests. Payment in gold or products from our farmers market.
43,"Sheep Numbers Dwindling - We don't know who, or what, is killing our sheep, but we cant ignore it any longer. Over the last three months, we found several mother sheep and their newborns dead. We offer 10 gold coins for whoever finds out what has happened to our lifestock and ends this from happening again. (A were-sheep has been killing the other sheep, can be found out when the heard is observed, all sheep go away when this particular one comes close to them, or when the transformation happens during a clear moonlit night.)"
44,"A notice to those on hard times that the mines are hiring, the tag line on the bottom says “We’ve cleared out the danger that once struck our mine and threatened the safety of the miners, we are confident that resuming our operations shall be fruitful and safe for all.” (Underneath that is a hand written note directly under the text, “So much for your confidence.”)"
45,"Deal of a lifetime! I'm willing to trade a lovely tin pot, painted with cornflowers and lilies (and showing a few holes, true, but that's a plus, for you can add a few more and look at that, you've got a colander) for a cart. The cart needn't be big, can even be tiny, in fact, just so that two, or better four, people could fit in it, with ample room for bags and sacks, if possible. Could be old, long as it rides well and has new wheels, and strong axles, so actually probably nothing made longer than a year or two ago would do. Leave a message with Bohddie."
46,Cleric needed - Daughter Ill and Dying (A local father is worried because his daughter’s health has been rapidly declining. He needs someone with knowledge of medicine to determine what kind of illness... or poison or curse... is affecting her.)
47,"Adventurers needed! Our Kobold in our previous adventuring party is currently missing and is in possession of an ancient and dangerous artifact. Problem is, he ate it. Please return the artifact in tact! The Kobold (Skrazz) can be returned dead, alive, or not at all for all we care. 1000 GP Reward."
48,"Multi-Linguist Needed: While going through my pappy's attic I found this really old map that I'm pretty sure leads to something cool. The problem is, I can't read it! Pretty sure it's Celestial, Draconian or Elvish cuz the letters are all curly. If the map leads to some sweet treasure I'll share it fairly with you!"
49,"Taste-Tester Needed: Lord _____ needs a qualified taste-tester for upcoming banquet to fill recently vacated position. Benefits include All you can eat food and drink, provided medical care, lodging and pay-per-taste. Dwarvish candidates preferred. Inquire at ______ Manor."
50,"A Muse-ment Please: My brother, the head writer of our musical comedy duo is in a rut. He hasn't been writing any good jokes for a while and I just can't play backup to another lukewarm song like ""there's gnome place like home"". He needs something hilarious and inspiring to jump-start his creativity again. I'm taking him to the _____ tavern tonight for drinks, and if you manage to orchestrate some weird and hilarious scene I'll pay you 10g. (by the way, don't tell him I paid for this, just say I owe you money or something I don't care) -Billie Doobie"
51,"FOUND: Strange child's doll. Blue gingham dress, yellow yarn hair with blue satin bow, made of painted wood. Eyes are large and very lifelike, seeming to follow you around the room. IF YOU RECOGNIZE THIS DOLL PLEASE COME AND TAKE IT I'LL GIVE YOU 5G. -23 Wyverann St E"
52,"LOST SHORTS: please, this seems silly, but recently my favorite lucky shorts have gone missing! I'm sure someone stole them but I have no proof. I need them before the big poker tournament tomorrow and I will pay 100g to whoever finds them! They are purple with green polka-dots and the back pocket has a recently-patched up rip. Also my name is written on the waistband. -Marty Martingale, #4 Lake Park Ave. E"
53,"WHO AM I?: I woke up in a gutter this morning outside of the Hill Street Inn and Tavern. I do not remember who I am, where I am from, what my name is, anything. I have a large sack of gold on my person and I am currently renting at the Hill Street Inn and Tavern for the foreseeable future. If you assist me in regaining my lost memories I would be more than happy to properly compensate you, for it seems that whoever I am, it is a man of means."
54,Local Tavern needs (at least one more) bouncer for annual all-you-can-drink QuaffFest Celebration tomorrow. Usual bouncer called in sick and can't make it. Will pay 5s/hr and after your shift that evening all your drinks are free!
55,"BARD EXTRAORDINARE: Art is the purest expression of the soul, and no-one expresses themselves more eloquently than Clover Salvatore, the hottest Bard to grace the realm. The Golem Guardian newspaper has called him, ""A fresh voice, Clover Salvatore will wow your tavern with his genre-bending style, and witty lyrics. A star in the making"". Send a pigeon and book him in now!"
56,"FIRST CLASS MALE: If you need a message that needs delivering, look no further than this First Class Male. With reasonable fees and lightning quick delivery, it's not just the devilishly handsome good looks that make this the best way to tell someone you care. Speak to Dorian for more information."
57,"Help wanted t' return me property: Yesterday some o' th' young neighborhood scalawags stole me carved wooden leg while I were pissed in th' gutter outside th' Salty Strumpet. I can nah chase aft them t' git it back 'cause me backup leg be mor'n ghastly. If'n ye can get back me leg I'll pay ye 10 gold, it holds a lot o' sentimental-type meanin' t' me."
58,"BIG AWARD MONEY!! Near forest there is cave. In cave small monster. Need help with monster. WILL AWARD BIG MONEY!! (A barghest's trap, prepared by goblins to lure adventurers in and devour them alive)"
59,Someone stole my chicken that lays all sort of metal eggs. Help me find it.
60,My Family is about to find out about my secret. Good liars and problem solvers in need.
61,"The bridge collapsed again and I lost my wagon. Will pay good gold if bridge repaired, and more if wagon retrieved. Contact Arkwright's village store for reward. (Twist: Goblins have been booby trapping the bridge to steal the contents of wagons.)"
62,"What up? We're three cool guys who are looking for other cool guys who want to hang out in our party mansion. Nothing sexual. Dudes in good shape encouraged. If you're fat, you should be able to find humor in the little things. Again, nothing sexual."
63,"Missing pet! My pet has been missing since three nights ago and has not returned home. If found return to , whoever finds him will be rewarded greatly! (Twist: the missing pet is actually a small dragon.)"
64,Need basilisk eggs for experiment! Big reward!
65,"Missing: One (1) semi-intelligent skeleton. 5 feet 10 inches. Last seen wearing blue cloak. He was sent to the market for some groceries five days ago, and hasn't come home. His creator misses him very much. 50 GP & four (4) Stones of Farspeech upon return."
66,"Love of my life! Please, I need your help to make me look cool in front of the love of my life, so that I can win her heart! I could never hope to win her by normal means since I'm poor. I will give you all of my life savings in return. Bonus if you look scary! //DM note: The plan is to have the players perform as crooks flirting and trying to pick up the girl and in turn be chased away by the contract giver to make him look cool."
67,"Need to make silver quick? Why not platinum! Rent doesn't pay itself ya' know! Find Raul Sonderheim and ask him how you can become your own boss and never have to work a day in your life! (Can be a quest to thwart a predatory pyramid scheme OR be the starting branch in a murder investigation once Raul is found murdered, likely by one of the people he recruited.)"
68,WORK FROM HOME: Easy money that anyone can do! Finally live your dream lifestyle! Be your own boss! Make thousands in your first week! Retire early! Don’t be left out!
69,"Open minded and discrete healer wanted. Must interview.: Despite the suspicious wording, the job is treating people from discriminated-against ancestries or with embarrassing deformities that have been persecuted, passed over, or financially exploited by other healing organizations. The pay is low, but you make solid allegiances. Word of your kindness spreads among the hidden downtrodden and you may find welcome far away."
70,"Sales assistant wanted. Incredible pay!: It's a multi-level marketing job. The job poster gives you a sales talk about their wonderful liniments and gizmos. They do work, but they are overpriced. You have to make a bulk purchase of the items and then try to resell them for a profit. You are unlikely to find the buyers needed to turn a profit and are stuck with too much stock."
71,Horsebreaker needed! Inquire at the Post Office! The job is preparing young horses to accept the saddle and harness so they can be ridden or pull carts. They must also be taught basic commands and gaits. The job is successful if the handler can get the horses to calmly accept riders and obey simple orders.
72,"Do you think you know your gems? A grand test awaits at Nappe and Klippe's Emporium. Only those who truly appreciate mines and minerals should apply! A local jeweler's outfit acquired a large stock of specialty mineral samples and gems from a flash sale of unclaimed shipments. They need them identified but want someone, preferentially a dwarf, who isn't going to undersell them. The first part of the job is a basic knowledge test and then they move onto the unusual samples. They pay in wholesale gems of the player's choice."
73,"Music tutor: My son Stevie wants to be a bard, but the kid has absolutely no talent. I want to enjoy my time at home without the shrieking of his horrible electric lute destroying the peace. I'll pay you 10g to give him some lessons, and if after a couple his ""Music"" becomes less painful, I'll give you a 100g bonus. Contact John Harris at 75 Leyton Ave."
74,Help! My mother-in-law is coming to town for a visit and I need someone professional to inflict me with some awful disease or other affliction so I have an excuse to stay in bed and not interact or be around her. Please no afflictions that cause permanent damage or death. Mildly life-threatening ok. Meet me at 10pm behind that bar that smells like old goat. You know the one. 50g upon disease delivery.
75,"Help recovering property! This is your local bard Razzle, and if you've seen me lately you know that I haven't quite been myself. The truth is I lost my prize peacock feather hat in a wager at the Lusty Mermaid two days ago. The man who won it from me said I could pay him back for the value of the hat, but when I went to the inn he was staying at I found he skipped town without even paying his tab! (And I found out he cheated at that game of cards by the by) Please, I need a skilled ranger or another who is good at tracking to get back my hat! I'll pay you 4,000 gold to go with me to get it, and I'm willing increase the price to 5,000 if our quarry proves elusive."
76,URGENT: It is my little pookums birthday and the entertainment cancelled! Anyone may apply as replacements at the magistrates estate.
77,"NEEDED: Someone competent in the ways of word to berate, yell, and speak ill of me. Willing to pay. Discretion is key. Meet me during the night 2 alleys up from the pub in order to discuss terms."
78,"LOST: 3 peg legs, a hook, 5 eye patches, and a talking parrot. If found please return to ""The Luckiest Crew"" down at the pier."
79,HELP WANTED: Poor old widow requests the assistance of any strong and able persons to rearrange some furnishings. (She is a witch in a small town of elderly folks that help her trick strong strangers in order to preserve their own lives.)
80,"MINIONS NEEDED - Local Lich Looking for Less than Lawful Lackeys. References not required, no paladins. Full training and benefits given."
81,"Fence need painted. Good pay. Contact Sythi at the Inn. Twist, the fence is 10 feet tall and almost a mile long."
82,"ISO: Skilled toymaker, it's my daughter's birthday and she wants a teddy. I can compensate for any materials you use. This was posted by an orc and her human husband, there's an address near the bottom with a smiley face. The 6-year old half-orc wants a GIANT teddy."
83,"IN NEED OF DURABLE IDIOT, WILL BE WORKING WITH IMPOSSIBLE GEOMETRIES. IDIOCY NOT NEEDED BUT DESIRED. BRING FRIENDS. snacks provided! (This was wrote incredibly hastily by a desperate wizard, and his wife. The words ""snacks provided"" are in much cleaner handwriting toward the bottom, obviously added as it was being posted.)"
84,My brother an me want candy!!! (This note is barely legible and is tacked at the very bottom of the board.)
85,"Hey, we're having a party and we need booze. Bring any and all you can carry. (Posted by some broskis at the wizard college. There're about 200 in need of whatever alcohol they can get their hands on.)"
86,Having trouble stocking all these books! Will pay for some big and strong people to help me! (This was posted by a small old woman who owns the local library.)
87,"A set of seemingly innocuous symbols is carved into the side of a barrel underneath the board, all in Thieves' Cant. The symbols are being used for a purpose they're very much not meant for, and the message is patchy and uncertain. ""Dangerous Area."" ""Owner not home."" ""Owner is Vigilant."" Meaning: One for the rogues! The local thieves' guild has found that their missions in the area have ended... poorly. Their new recruits are raving about some kind of spirit, and the veterans insist that something just isn't right."
88,Need demolition help: A demolition company is looking for outside help to clear out and then tear down a vacant house. The reward can be money or allowing the players to scavenge what they find inside the house. (What the company doesn't tell the adventurers is that no one will do the job because of the powerful stench coming from the house. Exploring the house reveals a locked(mechanically or magically) wooden door leading to the basement of the house. The basement contains 1d4 Dretchs accidentally summoned by the previous owner.)
89,"Mimic hunt! Mimics are running rampant throughout the town. Find and kill 2D6 mimics. 1-6 mimics gets 100gp, 7-11 gets 300gp, and 12 kills gets 500gp."
90,Being followed by crawling claws. Kill 1D4 crawling claws. Reward of 40gp.
91,House is overrun with rats. Exterminate 4D10 rats and 2D4 dire rats. Reward of 450gp.
92,Help find my lost pet cat! Reward of 3D10gp to anyone who finds him.
93,"The baker has put out a poster, looking for someone to deliver pastries to the mischievous yet kind faeiry dragon that watches over the town from its lair in the woods outside."
94,"Looking for riddle maker. You make riddles, we buy 'em! For more information contact your local Wizards Association."
95,"WANTED: Internship with seasoned adventurers. I've admired heroes all my life and want to try my hand at it! I'm hardworking, loyal, and a team player."
96,"Victimless Instigators of Loot Extraction is seeking henchmen for transportation of merchandise. Some risk is involved. Must be capable of intercepting and stopping pursuers. If interested, head to Church of St. Deegho and ask for Carmen."
97,"Help! My good friend Smolik Droweater has been trapped! My scrying reveals he is stuck in a 10-foot room. He has a chest of valuables with him, but needs help getting it and him out of the dungeon safely! Come to the Tower Tisential if you are willing to help! -the Wizard Quinn."
98,"Seasoned adventurers needed! Writer/Bard here, tell me the tales of your great adventures, I need some inspiration for my books/songs. Payment will be determined by how good your stories are."
99,Just bought the old mill outside of town. But there's something living in it (make something up). Will pay 50GP and free milling service for a year to anybody who clears out the infestation and makes it safe for our family to set up!
100,"Help settle a minor dispute between two noble Elven houses! House Alendrian is looking for adventurers to help draw the domain lines with the House Walopez border. If you are strong of arm and fleet of foot, inquire at the Dovestail Manor."

d100,Entry

1,Restless night. Do not gain any benefits from the long rest. roll to determine a party member which this happens to.
2,A small rodent wanders through your camp. It seems to be begging you for food.
3,A PC starts talking in their sleep. It wakes up another member of the party.
4,"You hear an owl hooting, but cannot spot its den nearby."
5,A ghost appears and asks you for a favor.
6,The guard of the camp starts to nod off. Roll CON to stay awake.
7,You get really hungry. Tomorrow’s rations are looking delicious.
8,"You get wrapped up in your own thoughts, reflecting upon decisions made in your past."
9,You hear a couple chatting and laughing as they walk by in the night.
10,You spot some glowing mushrooms just outside of camp.
11,A fire starts nearby. The Player can see an orange glow to the sky and embers permeating into the sky.
12,Raccoons (or some other rodent) come in and eat all your rations. They also stooled in your favorite spare set of clothes.
13,Random player gets stung by scorpion/wasp/mosquito for 1 damage.
14,"Camped out on a sink hole. Roll a d20. On a 17 or above, the sinkhole gives way. The sinkhole could lead to an abandoned mine or other facility. Could also be a simple hole."
15,You smell something cooking. There is a nearby goblin camp and they are roasting a pig on a spit. They don’t notice the player unless they are particularly careless.
16,"The night has been particularly cold. There is a random small, sleeping creature wrapped up in the corner of one of the PC’s tents in order to stay warm and dry."
17,A bird (Or other small animal) shows up at the camp and refuses to leave.
18,"Slept on a small rock, root or stick. Have a tender spot or sore back for 1d4 hours."
19,Spider/scorpion/rodent crawled into a player’s boot. Do a perception check before putting boots on unless they knock the boots out first.
20,A herd of (fill in random animal) rush toward the campsite. Clearly spooked by something nearby.
21,A vicious storm begins to brew in the area. Raging winds and torrential rain begin to fall.
22,"A nearby fire flickers green for a moment, then subsides. Magic? Perhaps."
23,"Far off, very far off, someone screams in the night."
24,Silence. Oppressive silence. Is that a good omen? You hope it is…
25,A rumble of thunder. The sky is restless.
26,"Something lies in the dirt face down. Looks like it’s been there a while. Could be a book, or a shoe, or a bounty note … you decide."
27,A predator (appropriate to environment) lurks nearby. It’s watching you intently.
28,"You wet the bed (no damage, you just smell awful the next day)."
29,A PC has a nightmare and wakes up screaming.
30,"A madman is heard nearby, jabbering: “He is angry, He demands me to please Him!”"
31,A sleeping party member has bad gas. roll CON or wake up annoyed.
32,"A small native animal approaches. If the PCs are kind to it, it reveals itself to be a wildshaped druid, and casts a beneficial spell. If they are unkind it reveals itself to be a druid and casts a detrimental spell. It then leaves."
33,Everyone’s shoes are filled to the brim with dirt. All Party Members deny doing it.
34,A pixie has replaced all your water with wine.
35,"A pack of wolves is heard howling at the moon nearby, a few minutes later they are heard much farther away."
36,"A brown bear (or a large creature native to the environment) walks into camp, trying to sniff out the player’s rations."
37,"A foraging party of chaotic evil bipedals (2 orcs for example) find your camp, but they see you on watch and decide that it would not be wise to try anything. They wander off. (maybe have the player at watch roll intimidation)."
38,"You hear the sounds of a wounded animal in a trap. Roll a d20, if it crits then the animal is magical and intelligent and may offer compensation for its release. (can let it out or dine on it yourselves, can ignore it, can search for the hunter who placed the trap)."
39,"Two cultists carrying a bonded sacrifice pass near enough to your camp that you may hear them. If freed, the sacrifice will run away immediately."
40,A meteor lands nearby.
41,A group of 1d4 wild boar attempt to eat all your food items. Player on watch can potentially lure them away.
42,A solemn procession of hooded figures carrying lanterns pass nearby.
43,You see a shooting star.
44,"The night has been particularly hot and humid, all PC’s that can sweat wake up sticky and smelly."
45,"The night has been particularly dry, you wake up with cracked, bleeding lips and a dry thirst."
46,"The night has been particularly wet, the PC’s clothes are now all sodden with cold mud."
47,"A small mammal absconds with [1d4] coins, or a mundane small object in the PCs possession."
48,"A cursory check shows the PCs’ waterskins have some gross looking growth in it, rendering the water within rancid and undrinkable."
49,Another adventuring party’s camp has settled near by and you can hear their merry celebration over their last adventure. Could potentially trade goods with the nearby party.
50,"A friendly giant approaches your camp, asking for directions."
51,"In the morning, before leaving, you notice a valuable item is missing. Roll WIS to remember where you left it."
52,"Allergens are particularly bad this night, roll CON or wake up in a coughing, sneezing, red eyed fit. Disadvantage on perception for the following day."
53,You receive a message through courier or Sending.
54,A wizard teleports into your camp and he is very flustered. He will reward the PC’s if they assist him in some way.
55,"A puppy, looking to play, wakes the party in the night. A child comes to collect it in the morning and leaves a copper for the brave heroes."
56,A threatening note is stabbed into a nearby tree with a peculiar knife.
57,Kids are hiding nearby throwing pebbles into the camp.
58,An insect falls into a players mouth while they sleep.
59,"A gemstone falls from the sky. What is it worth, you wonder? And where did it come from?"
60,A dragon flies overhead. It seems that it did not spot you. Lucky.
61,"An NPC explains you’re not allowed to camp here, and demands 2d4 silver from the party."
62,"The Sunrise is particularly beautiful. If a party member is on watch at the time, they gain inspiration."
63,A single bard approaches the party and offers them some strong spirits and good stories in exchange for a nights company.
64,"A random PC catches a cold, disadvantage on ability checks for 4d6 hours."
65,"A large piece of fruit falls on [roll for party member’s head]. If their are no trees in site, the most likely culprit is a bird who dropped the fruit it was carrying (feel free to make a monty python joke). The source of the falling fruit could also be a child’s prank or something similar. You decide."
66,"There are tremors in the middle of the night. If camped out near structures, awake and make a Dex save or take damage from falling structures (the tremors wake them before the structure falls, no disadvantage). Similarly if camped in a forest then maybe a tree falls, make a dex saving throw."
67,"At the very edge of your vision, you think you see a unicorn passing through."
68,You get a restful sleep and restore one additional hit die in the morning.
69,"A group of 1d4 bandits raid the camp at night, all PCs wake up and must defend themselves. However, right before combat begins a horn is blown and the bandits retreat. I wonder why?"
70,A traveling merchant appears when the party wakes up (sells any useful adventuring supplies that the PC may have forgotten to purchase before leaving the city).
71,"One of the PCs has a lucid dream, the dream begins with the PC waking up in the party’s camp and having an urge to wander off. This dream may offer insight into what challenge the party will face, it could also just be nonsense dictated by the PC who has control in the lucid dream. He/she wakes up at the DM’s discretion."
72,"A witch casts sleep on the PC on watch. She leaves a mysterious bottle of liquid on the ground and leaves. the liquid is magically made to look extremely enticing, but have a detrimental effect upon being drunk."
73,Lightning strikes a nearby graveyard (1d8 zombies begin to wander within it).
74,Your PCs share tales of their homelands or valiant deeds (perhaps embellishing to a degree) – perhaps someone reveals a major background point – inspiration for whichever PC did the best (subjective) job roleplaying.
75,"Over the course of several hours dozens of large predators begin to gather at the edges of the camp, they aren’t hostile but they bar you from leaving. Eventually a druid appears and demands to know why you desecrated a previous location."
76,You meet a group of adventurers coming the other way. They are friendly and share information. In the morning both groups discover an item of value seems to be missing from their belongings. A mischievous NPC is likely at work here.
77,"The night was excessively cold. As a result of the frost, it will take 1 complete action to unsheath weapons using scabbards for 1d8 hours."
78,A random pc accidentally slept on a poisonous plant (appropriate to the environment) and now has a rash for 1d4 hours.
79,"While packing up, a bird (or bat) does his business on (Random pc) in plain sight of everyone."
80,As your party awakens (party member with highest passive perception) sees a glimmer beneath a tree. Upon further inspection he/she finds a skeletal hand clutching 1d4 electrum coins + 5d10 silver pieces.
81,Random PC awakes to find a trinket beneath their backpack (roll from trinket list).
82,You can hear very distant and faint music.
83,It is a full moon (DM can initiate something based on this or just leave it like nothing happened).
84,Some mischievous Fey/Sprite has managed to somehow extend your slumber. You over-sleep by 2d4 hours.
85,A mysterious stranger comes to the camp and asks to stay the night. Leaves a gilded box of fine tobacco/tea/coffee beans/hard candies when they leave at dawn.
86,A snake is found coiled near the camp. If approached it slithers quickly away leaving a nest of 2d4+2 red eggs. They act as a healing potion if added to food.
87,A player accidentally slept on top of their arm. That player has -2 to dex rolls for 1d4 hours in the morning.
88,"A stranger approaches the campsite, making no effort of stealth. They are kind and will comply if the awake PC asks them to remove their weapons. They reveal themselves to be a vampire, in dire need of blood. They ask for a donation, but will walk away disappointed if the player refuses."
89,A group of priests walks past your camp offering their blessing and prayers for a night at your fire.
90,A dense fog rolls in and persists through the early morning (disadvantage on perception for 1d4 hours).
91,A PC won’t stop snoring. Other players roll CON or are woken up and cannot get back to sleep due to the snoring. Disadvantage on ability checks for 1d4 hours in the morning.
92,"The fire dies out. It is pitch dark. (get more wood? perhaps leads to something interesting happening, you could reroll on this table to determine what happens while you search for firewood)."
93,Crickets chirp incessantly. Their chirping reminds you of an old song you once heard. That song gets stuck in your head.
94,"During the middle of the rest, a strange goblin approaches the camp. He is looking for directions to the nearest city. If helped, players can find him in the city to which they pointed him off to. He might even give them a reward."
95,"A neglected and beaten mule will wake the party up with it’s pained bleating. Deal with it, and you can go back to sleep."
96,"You find a pseudo-dragon rummaging around the groups treasury, if questioned he’ll claim to be a real dragon cursed with being very, very small."
97,"Succubus appears to the player, and offers a great time with no strings attached. If the player agrees, she gleefully pulls out a chessboard and asks if they want to be the white or black pieces."
98,You hear a cry from nearby. Upon investigation you find a 1 year old child whose parents were killed by an owlbear (or another environment appropriate creature). The child is hungry and cold.
99,"A player dreams of eating some delicious chicken, only to be awoken by a chicken sitting on them."
100,"The party has a group dream and the artifact they acquired in it appears when they wake up. A demon is having a little fun. The artifact is likely cursed in some way, you decide…"

d100,Entry

1,A tiny village and surrounding homesteads have been razed by a pack of orcs. The two wolf riders have a chain gang of women and children ready to move but not before they plan to set fire to the trembling old and infirm they have piled in the village square.
2,3 Trolls sitting at a campfire eating an animal they have slain today.
3,A lightning elemental trying to get back to it’s home: inside Thor’s Hammer.
4,A young man claims to be the son of Odin and is backing up that claim by conquering nearby townships. He wields a +3 spear that flies back into his hand after he throws it and give him True Sight (it’s a relic he found)
5,"A booming sound is heard over the sea during a storm, but it does not sound like thunder. The storm giants are fighting and their battles are causing endless storms and floods. Sail into the heart of the sea, through this weather, and stop them"
6,"Dwarves under a mountain are crafting an item that looks like a giant ruby. If they complete it, it will allow fire giants to obey their commands. The ice giants are not pleased about this"
7,"Two dragons attack each other over a viking village. Both die in the battle. Now the villagers are going to go to war with each other, as two leaders want the corpses for themselves."
8,Giant Elk rutting as a neutral one but still dangerous
9,"A dwarf named Fafnir is running away with an otter skin full of cursed gold, depending on the difficulty you’re after have him slowly turning into a black dragon. At a minimum he’s almost a half dragon."
10,A rumor is heard about a mysterious well (Mimir’s well) that grants magical boons to those who sacrifice something to it. (Or the players stumble upon the well.)
11,Raiders need some more muscle on a pillage!
12,"As the players are threatened with freezing to death on a mountain pass, a welcoming cave turns out to be the entrance to a formidable Jotun community. Or a bear den depending on level."
13,A woman in a bar reveals her self to be a fallen Valkyrie. She needs your help to return to Asgard (or your world equivalent) and prove her honor. Turns out she’s “fallen” for a reason and getting her back to Asgard would be disastrous.
14,"A famous bard has been replaced by a servent of Loki, and now walks the land twisting the myths and tales of old, spreading all the wrong lessons to the wrong people, causing chaos all the while."
15,"A local Jarl’s son has been captured and the Jarl wants him rescued. The son is being held in a pit. If the players enter the pit, it fills with (highest character level) x d8 constrictor snakes and the illusion of the Jarl’s son fades."
16,"Rumors are abound that the dwarves in the nearby mountains are at work at a great golem, one which will claim them alone victory at Ragnarok."
17,The draugr have risen and are attacking the countryside. The Jarls and lords protect their cities with powerful runes. But they will only hold for so long. Find the source of these draugr and end this madness
18,"A strange man comes from faraway shores, preaching a lord beyond all the gods, a lord of vengeance and mercy, of blood and wine. A lord encircled in vines and nailed to a beam. He has gained quite a following, performing miracles of this foreign god"
19,"A madman wanders from township to township, claiming to have returned from Helheim. Such a thing is impossible, but the man is said to see ghosts, and is as cold as the grave."
20,"A group of dragons, chromatic and metallic, have gathered in concert for one purpose: To kill the world serpent, and if they’re lucky, Niddhog also"
21,The cults of Loki are determined to give their god a weapon that can match the might of Mjolnir. They have gathered the best smiths and enchanters they can to craft the weapon for their god.
22,"A fleet of longboats made of strange, black wood has been spotted upon the coasts. They are demanding the first born from every village as tribute, or else they shall burn the countryside to ashes."
23,A mysterious saga stone has appeared overnight with glowing runes written in a strange language that none of the locals can identify.
24,"A lycan is killing hunters and wanderers in the name of Fenrir, hoping this will break his chains early"
25,"A dark wizard, a necromancer, has found a way to turn trolls into draugr, and now aspires to amass an army"
26,A spirit that was to be taken up by the Valkyries to Valhalla has broken loose from their grasp and now possesses mighty warriors to be a warrior again here on midgard.
27,An old woman throws runes in her shack on the edge of a pine forest. The bones scream of portent and woe. Darkness falling over the land and a chill winter that hasn’t been seen in 100 years. As she weaves her prophecy the party is quietly surrounded by 1d6 Ice Spiders.
28,You stumble onto an empty dragon horde cave that is camp to a raiding party of Duergar. They think you’d make excellent slaves.
29,Near a cemetery 1d20 skeletons rise looking for glory. Their Jarl stole their treasure horde and ran off. Two gold coins each is enough to send their poor souls to the afterlife victorious. They give you the cursed family name of the thieving former Jarl.
30,"A Jötunn (Giant) determines he wants to taste any exotic members of the party. The patchwork furs, skull belt, dwarf armor necklace, and massive stone club make for a very convincing argument."
31,You find a wounded shield maiden with her dead compatriots in zombie form closing in on her. Two of the zombies are on fire.
32,"Cultists have a magically restrained Valkyrie on a sacrificial altar in the rib cage of a long dead god. They chant as they pour blood in her mouth to suppress her divinity. The ten cultists summon 1d4 Fire Elementals, but if the Valkyrie screams she can kill half of them. She begs the party to get her to the nearby ruined temple of Odin."
33,An empty long boat is scuttled on the shore. There’s zombies tied to the mast and one stuck in some fish nets. Ten more in chainmail armor walk out of the water towards the ship and the party.
34,A small dwarf woman is being chased by a hell hound. Her father the Jarl had recently passed away and her uncle seeks to usurp the land she inherited.
35,You stumble upon a horde being buried. The 1d6 Vikings were about to sacrifice a boy and girl to protect the treasure from the afterlife.
36,"A herd of elk run past you. The party discovers a grizzly bear, fur black with shadow, and eyes glowing red with rage barreling towards them."
37,A ghost begs them to return her skull to her nearby body on a stone throne. Her chainmail covered body animates and raises 1d6 skeleton warriors to show her thanks as she covers the party in darkness.
38,"Dark magics are at work when a pair of two-headed, undead dire wolves attack."
39,"A child of Fenris stalks the party. A great wolf in her own right, about 15 feet at the shoulder, she begins to creep ever slowly towards the PCs. If the party runs to the end of the forest she reverts to a harmless human form as her magic is bound to the woods."
40,A whisper and a giggle is heard coming from the woods. The spirit of a dead Viking girl is seen as she summons 1d6 skeletal wolves. She was intentionally poisoned and fed to this particularly savage pack in life and now she commands them in death.
41,"A small fishing village is raided by 1d4 pale orcs while the fishermen were out on the lake. They’ve already slaughtered half the village, small fires have broken out. One stupidly fell into a net."
42,An unnatural fog rolls into the path from the woods. Far off into the woods you hear a witch cackle as 1d4 will-o’-wisps attack the party
43,You find a boat maker and his family at his mooring being surrounded by Drow. They want to drag him to the Underdark to make boats so they can lay siege to an island on an underground lake that is protected by blind merfolk…and home to a great and dangerous treasure some say was buried deep in the earth by the god of the sea himself.
44,Four dwarf lumberjacks bursts from the treeline being chased by 1d4 demon-possessed Treants. They are not happy and one is missing a chunk from their leg.
45,"You come upon a flaming boat going down a peaceful river. The occupant, however, has other plans as a flaming corpse claws towards you screaming as his hemp rope bonds burn away. You wish the water could have been a little deeper"
46,A lone Viking holding a battle ax stands at the end of a bridge you must cross. Silent and covered in a berserkers balm you know he is planning to kill all of you.
47,"A Tiefling Viking is ending an argument with a friend by pointing at her horns and yelling, “Yeah! Well at least mine are real!!!” Shocked to see someone this far out here they decide to rob you."
48,A golden stag of Freya has been murdered by a pair of mountain trolls. These stockier cousins of your garden variety troll are known for their cruelty and affinity for throwing large stones and blocks of ice to tenderize their food before eating. Burning the stags body in a proper funeral pyre would really put you on Freya’s good side.
49,"A fox being chased by four mastiffs is looking tired. Seeing the party she jumps into the biggest member’s arms and reverts to her human form. The red haired girl pleads for help just as 4 Vikings and a priest ride up to the party. “The child is an omen of evil! She is a witch and must be judged!” If asked how the riders dismount and draw their weapons shouting, “By iron!” When saved the girl thanks the party and introduces herself as Siggi Lokisdötter."
50,A dwarf smith has been murdered while delivering his commission to a nearby temple. An orc stands over his corpse while unwrapping a spear that pulses with electricity. His raid bellow alerts the other orc band nearby as he rushes towards you.
51,"The stones crack open as a yawning portal from Hel opens and out screams a pale fallen Valkyrie with jet black hair. She was sent to kill a member of the party, but if overwhelmed she goes after a random family member or loved one and holds them hostage."
52,A raven of Odin warns you that a Jarl was recently murdered nearby and to just keep walking. The thanes fighting for power have separated into two main factions. Any side the party chooses will have a distinct advantage over the other. After the battle the winning faction murders the women and children of the defeated side. Leaving the bodies out for the ravens.
53,"A young shield maiden battles a necromancer in a fight to the death down in a frozen moor. Her mirrored shield redirects the wizard’s spells as he smashes down hard with a hand ax. Her friends (of every local race) held by dead hands, forced to watch her die. The three hundred ghouls surround the two fighters, growls and groans echo in the ice flats as ravens fly aloft in a darkened sky. If the party doesn’t kill the necromancer in 4 turns the shield maiden sacrifices herself to land the killing blow, dispelling all the zombies (and creating a pact of peace between all the denizens of the North)."
54,A camp nearby is bragging about a recent successful raid. They toast and prepare to open the 1d4 chests they stole from an exotic land. One chest shoots out a cloud of acid and the other ones are mimics.
55,The anger of the gods manifests in the shape of blood and thunder. This is gonna be messy.
56,Whalers have landed a large whale. They just began to harvest the blubber when 1d4 Ice Trolls caught the scent of blood. Half the whalers are already dead.
57,A giant and aggressive Wild Boar defending its shotes from the group
58,A cart full of farmers fly by with torches and spears. The ones in the back call for help as they yell for you follow them. A king troll has been seen along the Eastern borderlands.
59,"Twin Viking siblings (boy and girl) run into the party. Their family has fallen on tough times and they were sold into slavery. The new master beat them bloody and one of them within an inch of death so they ran. Two hounds, the master and a handful of farmhands are in pursuit. If it’s discovered he beat them so bad he faces dire consequences from the Jarl."
60,A bonfire in the woods reveal ten Vikings and a cage full of Tieflings. One has already been blood eagle’d as another corpse burns on the pyre.
61,A group of Brownies run into the party and are being chased by an angry necromancer. They stole his skulls. They give you open invitations to trade at their invisible villages that dot the countryside.
62,A little elf girl runs up to the party begging for help. Her ear has been cut off. A group of Vikings need her ears to bless their long boat. They are not leaving without it.
63,Three masked Jötunn ice giants have ripped a boar apart on a two story jagged ice crystal and are drinking the blood by wringing out the corpse. They see you.
64,A Treant and a raccoon are having a conversation in a clearing. A one eyed Tempest cleric with a hammer attacks the party. His name is Röht and he looks pissed. They carry a very impressive gem.
65,The snow becomes thicker and heavier as you travel. An Ice Elemental freezes the last victim of a previous adventuring party. As she lets out her last scream you realize you are in the middle of a grizzly statue garden of at least 50 frozen corpses.
66,A child of the World Serpent thinks you’d make a nice snack. Don’t worry it’s only a baby…at only 30 feet long
67,Black magic permeates the air as you see a human sacrifice taking place at a blood covered altar before a human-faced dire-elk. It has human arms dangling off the side of his head under his antlers. The cultists call him a “Child of Loki”.
68,Hel spits open and four goblin skeletons with hellhound mounts come for the soul of a party member
69,A hag is seen chasing an animated suit of chainmail armor. It begs you to help it. Eventually it will want to be turned back into a human.
70,"A Hill Giant carrying off four sheep can be seen stomping onto the path. He spits out the shepherd’s leg and heads towards you with a crooked, bloody smile."
71,The wreckage of a wagon is seen on the trail. A ghost appears and begs you to help his family. Off in the distance two women and a boy are screaming as they are about to be sacrificed to Loki by some cultists.
72,Six enslaved Yakfolk pull a great sled for a Fire Giant. She uses her flame whip to convince you to serve her.
73,"A group of Hill Giants have made camp up ahead and are preparing dinner. The 12 course meal of peasants would like to be uninvited, if possible."
74,The rain begins to hammer down along with the thunder and lightning. A bolt of black lightning hits the ground and 5-10 skeletons begin to rise up out of the mud.
75,A group of dark dwarves waylay a trading caravan of regular dwarves and Tabaxi. They have a blind pale Hill Giant helping them. Two of the guards have been killed and one of them eaten.
76,A mourning family drags a shrouded body of a woman along the path. It is still moving. They wrestle the corpse near the open grave with a large runed cover stone. It’s hands are bound and mouth stuffed with straw. Her lover shows up and tries to steal her away before being sealed away by the protective magics. If you save the corpse she thanks you by biting your necks.
77,Drums are heard in the distance. A group of Vikings are blowing horns and calling the goddess Hel to this realm. They are about to offer a blood sacrifice of a Valkyrie and five red headed maidens. Dark magic begins to dance along the bones of a long dead Red Dragon skeleton. The fires are starting to grow…
78,A viking is seen training a horde of goblins and hobgoblins to fight in a shield wall. He smiles as he sends them at you for practice.
79,The weather begins to worsen as a freak snowstorm begins to blow in. A crying blond Viking girl with one glove runs into you and begs you to leave her alone. She unleashes a large ice golem and a tiny animated snowman at the group. After the battle the girl’s sister runs up asking which direction she ran off to. Fortunately there’s a lovely sauna and comfy cabins nearby where you can let it go.
80,A black drake crashes down and tries to make a meal of the party. Black smoke billows from its eyes and mouth. Someone is controlling it.
81,A volcanic fissure opens in front of you. Six elemental lava zombies crawl out of the flaming maw heading towards you.
82,A one horned female Tiefling is being chased by Vikings looking for a war horn. Blood steadily flows from their broken stub with bruises and cuts covering their battered body. She begs you for mercy.
83,"In a dark fen a great sword rests embedded in a dais of stone. Great brambles grow around it. This was known as the Fey Slayer and drove the Fey from this land ages ago. Two guardian shadow dryads watch over it, killing any they deem unworthy."
84,"A trio of Mountain Trolls are about to eat an Asimar Wizard, a halfling, and 13 dwarves. The troll horde nearby is as epic as the smell."
85,"A Viking has slain his friends. He says the armor he wears is cursed and made him do it. “Kill me, before I kill you too.” as he fights back tears and makes his way towards you. A dark spirit does reside within the armor."
86,"An old great grandmother sits by her slain family on the side of the road near her burning cottage. Pale orcs laugh at her feeble attacks with her arthritic hands. The farm burns and animals cry as they are set alight by the spreading flames in their paddocks. “Odin grant me vengeance. Odin grant me justice.” she cries as an Orc Raider punches her in the gut, dropping her to her knees. The rolling thunder and freak storm begins to form. The air is heavy as she gets up one last time to lay her curse. “Valkyria!” is her last gasp before passing out…you are all suddenly possessed by battle hardened spirits under sway of the All Father and you have only one driving urge: kill the orcs."
87,A warrior named Sven of Orkney and his archer wife are being chased by his uncle’s men. He is the true heir to the nearby hold. A necromancer amongst the thugs demands Sven’s blood. Sven has travelled and has wonderful stories to tell if you save him.
88,An elf Berserker in a bear skin cloak stuffs a handful of mushrooms into her mouth and runs at the party with her glowing red battle axe.
89,The earth beneath your feet reverberates and you hear something heading to the surface. A black ooze bleeds up and forms a gelatinous cube. A little digging reveals it was made to guard a buried treasure horde.
90,Red-eyed Ice Genasi and a Frost Giant pierce the Bifrost to invade the realm. This is just a scouting party. You are the only thing stopping a full scale invasion of the realm from happening.
91,"Four hooded Raven Kenku jump out of a nearby potters field, necromantic energy at the ready. They are easily distracted by shiny objects."
92,"You find a baby crying in the middle of the road. His mother dead next to a dire wolf corpse, sword plunged to the hilt in the beast. The baby radiates a magical aura. A two headed dire wolf approaches. The hammer pendant around his neck points to who might be his father."
93,A tiny prince is about to be murdered by an unusually tall orc. The orc reveals his uncle paid for him to kill the child. If you save the child the Jarl will offer you the title of Thane should you eliminate the uncle and his vassals.
94,A red dragon whelp cries as it is being lashed and tied to a wagon by a group of Duergar. They have broken one wing already and knocked out a fang. Mom can’t be too far away…
95,"A Sorcerer has been attacked by the Jarl’s men. Beaten, stabbed, shot with arrows, and castrated they are preparing to drown him. He promises you great rewards if you help him. Rasputin Vordav will be eternally in your debt."
96,Three warring Holds have met on their contested borderlands just out of arrow range of each other. In the middle a necromancer has captured five druids in a forbidden ritual. The corrupted life magic of the druids sends out a wave of death energy that instantly kills all three armies. Quietly a new undead army begins to rise. Kill the necromancer to break the spell and return the people to normal.
97,"The road takes you through the ruins of a massive mead hall. The dwarven support columns are ornately carved, telling the story of a great Jarl that united his people of all races against foreign invaders. The stone walls have been melted by dragon fire. Three red dragonborn attack the party."
98,"A wedding party is bringing the bride-to-be to her new husband. The political marriage would bring two warring Holds together. The pale orcs, fearing a united enemy, have dispatched four wolf riders to kill the wedding party and plant weapons of the other Hold on the bodies."
99,"A party of Drow head towards a cave after attacking a group of travelling merchants and their carts. These Drow are different, blind, unable to speak a discernable language, and more feral than their regular cousins. The bound slaves beg for help. Their chitinous armor and weapons are quite unique to any surface dweller, as they haven’t been seen in 200 years."
100,You find Loki casually sitting on a rock next to the path. He wants to make a deal with the group that ultimately involves killing another god.

d100,Entry

1,Here Lies Big Benson - Didn't Bring His Ten Foot Pole And Paid The Price'
2,For a good time teleport to sequence [SIGIL SEQUENCE]'
3,Sneek Atak Heer' with an arrow pointing behind a rock.
4,Kobold Pride' in draconic.
5,Your Mother Is A Succubus'
6,Here lies Tom - 'There's no way that door can be a mimic'.'
7,Here may be found the last words of Joseph of Aramathia. He who is valiant and pure of spirit may find the holy grail in the Castle of Aaauuuggghhh... '
8,Dwarves Suck' written 8 feet up a wall.
9,"Don't bother trying to grave rob. The corpses don't like visitors. Come to think of it, they don't like anything living at all'."
10,"On the ceiling, 'Beware of Trappers'"
11,"On the floor, 'Beware of Piercers'"
12,Archmage Drachnar and his Meat-Shields were here'
13,"On the side of the passage, 'Only the penitent man shall pass ...'"
14,"A map of the dungeon that at first glance seems correct, but either upon closer inspection or actually trying to use it flaws are revealed, secret doors marked where there isn't one, hallways/staircases connecting the wrong rooms, etc."
15,"I'll make yer skeleton exit yer meat', in Orcish."
16,"Do not open.' on a door (door opens to a small, empty closet). 'Can you not read?' on closet wall."
17,"Don't Dead, Open inside' written in the same manner as on the show. While there's probably undead on the other side, the more or less garentees the room hasnt been looted."
18,"You don't matter! Give up!' Placed on a pair of small signs outside of the dungeon. Left by a well intentioned, if a bit stupid, bard."
19,Sorry about your wall!' Place this one near either some blood from a prior battle or a hole in the wall for added effect.
20,Fuck you!' placed behind a false door with a booby trap rigged to the door. Maybe a explosive/grenade/fire trap or a rockfall trap.
21,"Sharg's wife is most beautiful,' in orcish script, next to a crude picture of a fang-mawed dog."
22,A crude drawing of a kobold 'in congress' with a dragon. It isn't clear from the context and art quality whether this is a good or bad thing for the kobold.
23,68 tally marks scratched with incredible neatness. The last one looks very fresh and is shorter than the others...
24,"2 to the left, 3 to the right and straight below' in the language of a subservient race to the main dungeon dwelling race."
25,[Cheif's right hand lackeys name] is [impotent/illiterate/part-human/vegetarian/a bookworm/short-sighted/other dire embarrasing trait for one of their species or job] ' this is a horrible rumour around the dungeon which (s)he has worked hard to stamp out and is now largely forgotton or at least unspoken. It is also 100% true. Make sure you introduce them by name when the PCs meet them!
26,Trouble reading this? Try Lothar's Lights for all your torch and lantern needs. Just a short ride from this dungeon.'
27,"That last bit of graffiti was written by a [setting appropriate expletive]ing liar'. On a successful spot check, evidence of dried blood can be seen on the floor below the graffiti."
28,"Originally a crude carving of a penis, someone painted over it to turn it into a kitten. If the paint is removed, the original carved design remains."
29,Block the path RUN'
30,Take off that hat.'
31,It sees NO EYES'
32,You have to burn the rope.'
33,It hurts.'
34,OVER THINKING IT'
35,REDRUM'
36,NILBOG'
37,See you next Wednesday.'
38,There is no such thing as Majestic-12.'
39,How's my dungeoneering?'
40,Welcome to Hell. We accept payment in paper or plastic.'
41,I must not tell lies.'
42,"Wash your boots, don't leave any footprints behind.'"
43,"I am so grateful to be alive. I am in a world of shit, yes, but I am alive. And I am not afraid.'"
44,She's lying to you.'
45,Did I ever tell you the definition of insanity?'
46,Let me in. I'm scared.'
47,"In tiny lettering: 'If you can read this, it's already too late.'"
48,The Minotaur is not what he seems.'
49,Secret door here.'
50,Joreth - I've gone back for her. Meet me at the Frog and Jester in Pennyworth Lane.'
51,Look behind you. Now!'
52,I am the last of us. Do not think ill of me but I cannot go on alone. Do not choose the black door if you wish to see sunlight again. Good luck.'
53,Ph'nglui mglw'nafh Cthulhu R'lyeh wgah'nagl fhtagn'
54,No hope for those who proceed forward'
55,Watch for the pit trap'
56,In scribbled writing: 'Don't eat the mushrooms'
57,Turn 'wright' at the fork'
58,In blood: 'Zed's dead'
59,100 gold to anyone who finds my sword - [insert name and location of npc]'
60,"Brother, She’s not here- she is apparently in another dungeon.'"
61,You're lucky someone already read these Explosive Runes.'
62,"Here lies Gilbert - 'The mushrooms clearly aren't poisonous, that rat just ate some and it was fine. Look, I'll show you.'"
63,The skeletons are not dead' hastily written halfway down a hallway of skeletons.
64,The Great Necromage Vilicous and his coterie of foolishly moral companions were here'
65,"Treat the dungeon with courtesy, and it will do the same'"
66,"Worm Path - Look both ways before crossing' chalked on the floor on both sides of a large, circular tunnel intersecting a hall."
67,Mind the gaps' written in large letters before an otherwise empty stretch of hallway.
68,"If you are reading this, do NOT look behind you until you exit the room' scrawled in shaky letters on the back wall of a dead end room."
69,"Please step on me' carved onto the surface of random rocks and tiles on the dungeon floor. The words are seen multiple times throughout the dungeon's exploration, and seem to disappear when no one is looking. The words constantly reappear no matter what, but if stepped on, helpful and relevant graffiti is found before the next encounter, puzzle, or junction of pathways."
70,Grall Stonebringer was here.'
71,A picture of a gelatinous cube eating a person.
72,A cartoonish picture of a dwarf running away from a rust monster.
73,"Written in very tiny letters: 'If you can read this, you can't see the goblin sneaking up behind you.'"
74,"There is a short and narrow room; the long-rotted remains of a door hang off hinges at the entrance. Scrawled along one wall, in an ancient language the party must translate is '[Name of some long-dead king] gobbles donkey goobers'. The opposite wall is also marked, with '[Name of long-dead queen] does the nasty.' If the party succeeds on a perception check they realize they're standing in a toilet stall."
75,"A scribbled map of the dungeon, with a big X in one room and directions to a treasure. But it's a trick; when the party stands at that spot they trigger a trap."
76,Abandon hope all ye who enter here.'
77,Artival. Waited 3 days for you. Ran out of supplies. Moving on to the next level (or whatever floor is the one below.'
78,There's a safe room in the center. Left food and supplies.' (an obvious trap)
79,"On this day, Brumr Goldbeard killed ninety-three kobolds.'"
80,Who built this place?'
81,Vampires don't care about daylight when live indoors.'
82,Stick to the center halls. They're safer.'
83,Tika isn't dead. She's with us.'
84,WHERE IS THE EXIT'
85,"None are so blind that they cannot see the darkness of this place. Look not upon the face of the weeping one, Tread not on the bones of mad men.'"
86,We are the real monsters.'
87,This corner secured by the Mighty Woodchucks.'
88,This was all already written. You are being controlled. They know what you're doing. We're all just pawns in their little game. They decide who lives and who dies. None of us are safe. None of us have free will. Don't let them win.'
89,Jessedo R.I.P.'
90,"If you find my body, tell Matin I loved him.'"
91,God bless the Zentarim.'
92,Here rests two good men -- Nissus and Camom. Respect their souls.'
93,"Let it be known that I, Luip Salazom, screwed every barmaid in Neverwinter.'"
94,"Drawings of butts, each one from a different race."
95,"A symbol in thieves cant that means it is safe to rest, with 'r rouge died so I cant right this in yur theves speak, but go fuck yurself with a rusted spyke dipshit.' painted over it."
96,There is a secret door somewhere on this passageway- I hope you have better luck finding it.'
97,Large scrawled lettering that says 'Droop woz heer'
98,"Crimson red letters that are still oddly sticky, 'Don't ask about the price'"
99,An oddly phallic image that seems to have been painted on in bold white paint.
100,Bloody scrawled writing say 'The secret chamber has been opened.'

d100,Entry

1,A handful of Goodberries.
2,A large walking stick (stats like a quarterstaff) with different animals carved into it all the way up. It looks like there are a few spots in the staff that still need to be carved.
3,"A hair clip with preserved leaves, feathers, small acorns or nuts, and flowers. When you Wild Shape, it always remains clipped behind your ear."
4,"A preserved acorn on a golden chain. When planted in clean soil near running water, a half-mile wide grove of oak trees sprouts in the area in 4d4 months."
5,"A backpack with straps that are easily adjusted for different body sizes, and a clasp that can be opened by paws or teeth."
6,Silver chain that can enthrall listeners when shaken.
7,"Enchanted weapons made from bone, wood, or stone."
8,Animal figurines the size of chess pieces. Turns into the animal featured as an ally for 2d6 turns.
9,"An ashwood club tied to the elemental plan of fire. Three times a day, it may be infused with the power of this plane, doing an additional 1d8 fire damage along with club damage."
10,A bearhide which grants Wild-Shape:Bear once per day.
11,"A satchel full of a hallucinagenic powder. Can be used by smoking, adding to drink, or throwing into one's face. Grants one of the following effects: Blinded, Frightened, Exhausted, or Charmed. Only has 3 uses before the bag is empty."
12,A pouch of brightly colored pottery shards. Crows will perform small favors in exchange for a shard. Some crows like specific colors.
13,"A small hand dart, carved from mistletoe."
14,"A collection of feathers, colored stones, a red ribbon, nuts, a small piece of honeycomb, etc. They are all gifts from friends."
15,A wooden compass that always points in the direction of the nearest fresh water source.
16,Wild Root: When planted overnight near your camp it spawns thorned vines that encumber any enemies near the side of the camp you plant it on. In the morning the runners and vines dry and you can dig up the tubers for breakfast and keep a couple for the next time you go camping. The night air smells of jasmine.
17,"Moonbane Elixer: Wolfsbane essence, werecreature cerebral fluid, and a colloidal silver tincture will suppress or possibly reverse any transformation in any person suffering from lycanthropy."
18,Cersei's Taproot: A tapered quarterstaff that when pressed to a living tree trunk it sucks some sap and can be drank as a healing tonic or converted to flammable alcohol.
19,Kamahl's Claws: A bear claw necklace that gives you a +3 on attacks when in the shape of a CR1 animal or less.
20,Darkwood Orb: Druidic focus that adds an additional 1d4 necrotic damage to your offensive spells.
21,"Death Mask of the Dryad: Carved from the heartwood of an ancient Dryad's tree the profane nature of this ten-horned fetish gives you advantage against Fey. However, should a horn be planted in a Druid's Grove it grows into a new Dryad and tree, it makes that Druid's Grove permanent."
22,"A pile of carefully paper-wrapped hard candies. If eaten they tastes bitter and awful. If a piece of candy is unwrapped and planted in the ground, it will eventually grow into a candy tree. Each consecutive harvest and replanting will net progressively sweeter candy."
23,A wooden jar of black gel that smells faintly of apples. If applied onto a surface it dries to form a coating so reflective you could feasibly use it as a mirror.
24,A massive 5 foot tall piece of ancient tree bark inscribed with druidic runes that seem to predict several events that have already happened and one or two that have not. Upon closer inspection a part of the bark looks like it was recently and deliberately broken off.
25,"An intricate multi-level ant farm complete with multiple habitats, glass viewing plates, and an automated system to feed the ants at various intervals. The ants are of an exotic, possibly magical breed and seem to be building something that definitely isn't part of the farm."
26,"Gaea's Umbra: A long chord rope of simple hemp with jade end caps. It begins to glow with green Druidic letters when wrapped around a tree. A portal opens beneath the tree near the roots that acts similar to a Bag of Holding, but able to hold large amounts of bulk items like wagon wheels and even a sled or small boat comfortably. Histories seem to indicate it was once able to instantly transport large armies of Treants during the rare times Nature goes to war."
27,Breastplate of the Arch-Druid: The skill of the smiths who fashioned this out of petrified black ironwood has been lost to time. Truly a one of a kind piece of armor. The face of the Green Man is carved on the front and is said to whisper wisdom to the sleeping owner every night.
28,Emerald Nox Stone: Once placed into a necklace or ring and melded into your wildshape it adds 1d4 poison damage to your attacks. Your form has a sickly green and black aura wafting off of it.
29,"Willow Oftgütt's Troll-Mix: These trollbane acorns, once thrown, a target creature must succeed on a DC 10 Constitution saving throw. On a failed save, a target begins to turn to stone and is Restrained. The Restrained target must repeat the saving throw at the end of its next turn. On a success, the effect ends on the target. On a failure, the target is Petrified until freed by the Greater Restoration spell or other magic."
30,Quarter Pike: A fire hardened spear and Druidic focus all in one that works with Shillelagh.
31,"Encyclopedia Druidica: These books are a compendium of knowledge from the natural world (Increase your Intelligence or Wisdom score by 1, to a maximum of 20). Any checks that are nature related just seem easier to you."
32,"Bracelet of the World Walker - A small bracelet sewn out of various sorts of fabrics and strings, including spider silk, cotton, wool, and the fur of several species of animal. The wearer is unaffected by difficult terrain."
33,"Pendant of the Earth, Seas, and Skies - A small wooden pendant held on a red piece of string. The wooden pendant has three gemstones set into it, one blue, one yellow, one green. The blue gemstone glows dimly in the presence of freshwater and brightly in the presence of saltwater. The green pendant glows brightly when underground and dimly when underground but above sea level - say, when in a mountain. Lastly, the yellow pendant glows brightly during the day and dimly during dawn and dusk."
34,"Wethershome - appears to be a staff made of three long sticks bound together at the top, held by a string at the bottom. If the staff is opened to form a tripod, and covered in branches, entering an opening in the staff-tent allows players to enter a warm, dry room with rough-hewn furnishings. These furnishings cannot be removed from the room or permanently destroyed. Items left within the tent appear underneath the staff when it is lifted up and re-bound."
35,"Atulk's Cocoon - a bearskin, painted with symbols, and beaded around the edges. A person who sleeps inside the skin can get a decent nights sleep even on uncomfortable terrain, and gains protection from heat and cold while wearing or sleeping in the skin."
36,The Dirtmap Wand - appears to be a normal stick. Can be used to trace a map of a nearby area in the dirt with perfect accuracy (up to a 300x300 ft area).
37,"Fetch Ball - A ball of dyed fur wrapped around a stone, roughly the size of a tennis ball. When thrown, targets within 10 feet of the ball must make a wisdom saving throw, or else drop what they're doing to chase after the ball."
38,"Pendant of the Prey - a necklace decorated with a small mouse skull. After attunement, allows the bearer to find a path around any creatures the bearer would consider an enemy, if any such path exists."
39,"Pokeberries - small, dark purple berries. When burst, the berries create a thick, opaque juice that dyes objects a deep reddish-purple. Cannot be eaten."
40,"Seed of Brief Harvest - when planted, this seed grows to form a small bush, resplendent with fruit and vegetables. After a day, the bush withers and dies, leaving a dull stone. A ritual may be performed to enchant the stone into a new Seed of Brief Harvest."
41,"Heart of the Lumberwoods - A staff made of oak, wrapped in vines, and the top has a flower bulb growing out of the vines. In darkness, the bulb opens and releases fireflies that orbit around the flower and give off a soothing blue light (sheds dim light in a 10 foot radius). Once attuned, the bearer of the staff can use a bonus action to send the fireflies to a location within 120 feet (cast the ""Dancing Lights"" cantrip, without needing any components, and does not need to maintain concentration)."
42,"Twig of the World - A twig that, if planted, will grow to a full tree in 24 hours. You may remove one twig from the tree to do it again. Note: tree must naturally be able to grow or it won't work."
43,"Farseeker's Amulet: Deepening your connection to nature as you sleep you are shown all the geographic features, weather patterns, and points of interest in the surrounding area. While sleeping you resemble a pile of leaves, sand, snow, or stones."
44,"Chrono-mites: This amulet releases a particularly voracious species of termite from a pocket dimension where they are usually dormant. Any wood nearby is reduced to termite droppings in seconds. You gain advantage against treants, dryads, awakened trees and shrubs."
45,"Crown of the Wild Hunt: You gain two additional wildshape transformations per day and has a 5% chance of summoning an ethereal wolf, bear, or T-Rex that is friendly to you at the beginning of the week depending on your level."
46,Scroll of Sticks to Snakes.
47,"Leamhán’s Blessing - A small, simple bowl made from elm wood. When filled with oil and set aflame, it acts as a compass for those who find themselves lost in a forest. The resulting smoke points in the direction of safety. Luckily, the bowl itself does not burn."
48,Yew Wand of The Phoenix: The feather in the core of this wand gives a spell caster 25 charges of Firebolt with a 5% chance of it being a Fireball instead. When held over a dying friend the wand has a 5% chance of healing them to full health. Your carrying capacity is doubled while attuned.
49,"Blackthorn Shillelagh: Magical thorny vines spring into existence at a point you choose within a 30' range. The vines can only occupy a 5 foot cube. Any additional vines must be adjacent to the previous casting. Alternatively, you can create 5'x10' hedges by halving the density of the vines to create rough terrain. If a creature would be surrounded on all sides by the vines the creature can make a Dexterity saving throw. The vines can have any shape you desire, though it can't occupy the same space as a creature or object. Each square has an AC 5 and 15 hit points. Reducing a square to 0 hit points destroys it. If you maintain your concentration on the ability for ten minutes, the vines becomes permanent and cannot be dispelled. Otherwise, the vines disappear within a day. You may attack twice each round with the Shillelagh cantrip."
50,Vileblight Seeds: Plant these at night next to a tree and wake up to black and yellow seed pods in the morning... growing on a dead tree. Smash one on your weapon before combat to deal scaling poison damage.
51,Lost Ring of Orram: Your skin takes on a greenish tint and as long as you get 4-6 hours of direct sunlight you don't feel the need to eat. Each morning thereafter you wake up to two handfuls of Goodberries and mysterious accelerated plant growth around you. Roll one night every month for a 5% chance of waking up next to a plant based Simulacrum of yourself. You have advantage in dealing with plant based creatures.
52,Verdant Symbiote: Your skin begins to resemble bark and ironwood. A sentient nature spirit has bonded with you over your body and add +1 AC to your armor. Spider Climb and Web are accessible in humanoid form and your carrying capacity is doubled.
53,Savior of Gal'Darrow: By all accounts an ordinary coconut. But if thrown into a body of water it becomes a living ship. The sides fire large runners of vines that were said to be able to out wrestle a Kraken. When no longer needed the mast blooms and drops another coconut as the ship sinks into the waters below.
54,"Dryad’s harp- a harp with little vines for strings and a oaken body with stray leaves. It appears to be alive requiring water and light to sustain itself. It’s leaves changing with the seasons and it blooms in the spring. If broken or damaged, it will slowly but surely repair itself."
55,Nightshade Guardian: Plant this seed under your sleeping bag at night to envelope you in the center of an awakened tree all night while you sleep adding 1d4 poison damage to any attacks. In the morning it breaks open and blooms into a new seed.
56,Pangolin Bracers: Gain +2 AC and 1d4 slashing damage to your wildshape when hit with a melee attack.
57,"Curupira's Blessing: This amulet fits in your pocket and doesn't require attunement. Your tracks are now backwards, leading people following you away and people running from you towards you. Trees seem to move out of your way and food always seems to be available to pick. Animals are drawn to you."
58,Crow-bill of Ashwood: This specialized war sickle/scythe does 1d8 piercing damage plus an additional 1d4 fire damage. If flipped around the black mahogany handle can be used for the Shillelagh cantrip.
59,"Mar' Messeck: Twice a day hitting a button on this magical box creates a wooden Warforged that tries to help you with your problem. Once the task is done or it's been 24 hours he disappears. ""Existence is pain."""
60,"Expanding Stones: These tiny sling ammo sized rocks can turn into roughly 5 cubic feet boulders when thrown. Drawing the right Druidic rune reduces them back to normal size. Fun for camping if you want to retain heat, build a shelter, need a improvised table, or don't want anyone coming at you from a certain direction."
61,"Enchanted Soil - Any seed, root, or fungus spore planted in this soil will grow. Soil acts as favorable planting soil & favorable condition for growing any plant or fungus."
62,Rare Seeds - a collection of seeds from extremely rare & possibly magical plants & fungus.
63,"Staff of the Argonauts: A legendary quarterstaff made willingly from the heartwood of an immortal Oak tree. Etched along the spiral relief is an epic tale from ancient times. The middle is padded with golden wool and the top has two rows of dragon teeth and gets two charges each morning. Roll a 1d6 during combat to use a charge: 1. The blessing of the Sea God are upon you and five cubic feet of water leaks out of the bottom. 2. A mighty twenty foot tall Oak springs out of the ground in front of you. 3. An ethereal hero named Orpheus appears around you. Everyone who fails a DC 15 check is put to sleep (including you). 4. An ethereal brass-hoofed bull appears where you stand. Your heads align as you launch a Cone of Flame. 5. An ethereal serpent dragon appears around you and sinks his two fangs into the earth as you slam the top of the staff at the same time. Two soldiers (guard stats) spring from the ground and attack your enemies, but disappear at the end of combat. 6. An ethereal golden ram appears and heals the whole party completely even to the point of removing curses and exhaustion. Your next attacks are done with advantage as the War God blesses you."
64,"Laurel Circlet of Victory - A small circlet made of twisted laurel sprigs. When worn, this circlet gives the wearer a sense of unbeatable resilience, regenerating a point of health per turn when in combat."
65,"Shield of the Wild - A wooden shield, round in shape, its surface ornately carved with patterns of flowers and trees. When walking through woodlands, forests or jungles, the images change and move, almost matching the surroundings. Glancing in the direction of the shield, one might not see it at all, let alone the person carrying it."
66,"A small sprout, caring for it adequately for 3d20 days will eventually cause it to grow into a small ent."
67,Narvin’s Notebook: This book contains the notes of an unusually academic Druid. You have advantage on any intelligence (nature) check if you spend 1 minute reading the book.
68,"Minor Volcanic Dagger: an obsidian dagger glowing red with pulsating energy, dealing fire damage instead of piercing."
69,Potion of the Beast: Gain an extra wild shape charge till next long rest.
70,"A necklace made seemingly made of several roots braided together, when attuned, it will allow the user to cast treestride once per day."
71,"Chain of Spell Sporing - A daisy chain of of dried mushrooms that, when activated once a day it will cast one of the following spells at level 1 at random. (Charm Person, Cure Wounds, Faerie Fire, Fog Cloud)"
72,"A small figurine of a curled up baby with an earth elemental like face carved of stone. If the figurine is planted in a druids grove and many long, extensive rituals are performed on it, a galeb duhr forms. This galeb duhr will become the guardian of the grove."
73,"Cocobooze Seeds - These are seeds of the legendary cocobooze tree. The tree is a tall, pine like plant with branches that spiral in a staircase fashion. A few coconut like fruit hang from each branch that are at least 5 feet off the ground. When split open, the cocobooze fruit contain an alcoholic liquid that tastes like fruity, flat ale. This plant is sought after by many a brewer and the seeds are rare and very expensive."
74,"The branch of a willow tree, stripped of leaves and turned into a bow. Worn fey runes are carved into it."
75,A crown made of olive branches that never decay. The wearer is deceptively charming (Grants advantage on diplomacy checks). A few fresh olives pop off the branches every day.
76,A small brick of clay that will harden into solid oak wood after being exposed to moonlight. Druidic covens carve the clay into tools and the like before letting it harden. There should be more of this somewhere.
77,"An amber amulet with a large, random insect inside, preserved from a prehistoric era. Insects of the kind inside will be friendly to the wearer and may even listen to basic commands if you're charismatic enough."
78,"An alligator skull that reeks of sulfur and bog water. The druidic rune for 'Preserve' is carved into the forehead. If left underwater overnight, then a small trinket made of jet will be in the jaws."
79,An incredibly life-like snake carved out of wood. The snake will coil comfortably around your arm if you give it verbal permission.
80,Portable Baobab: This quarterstaff can quickly summon a 50' high and 30' in diameter tree to sprout out of the ground. Despite the tree only being considered halfway through its life cycle it is big enough to protect you from the dangers of the forest floor. Removing the staff gently sends it back into the earth.
81,The Amber Collar: One of the worst punishments a druid can visit on a sentient being. This collar can bind a Small or Medium creature. Escaping the collar requires a successful DC 20 Dexterity check. Breaking it requires a successful DC 20 Strength check. Anyone bound has six rolls to free themselves before being locked in amber stasis as a tree begins to grow out of the collar and the roots envelope them and dragging the victim into the earth itself for 100 years. The Amber Collar has 60 hit points.
82,Whisper Moth Candle: Light this candle once per night to draw in a large moth to your hand. You can whisper a message to it and then tell it a person or place you want it delivered. The moth will then fly there and deliver your message.
83,Green Arachnis Tripwires: The proximity to unstable magics where these 20 foot tall spiders dwell makes this silk web absorb any spell you cast into it and store it for later. Thread it around any two points and anything that passes through it is in for a nasty surprise.
84,"The Crown of the Woods: This antler headpiece (+1 AC) once belonged to an ancient wood-elf prince making all deer, caribou, elk, and moose species consider you friendly. Once per week you may call on one of these to ride, but if you harm your mount the horns constrict and pierce you for violating your pact with Nature."
85,"The Feywild Hatchet: Legendary prank gift to an old woodsman. Upon striking a tree it makes the tree grow taller and thicker, if used on an animal it heals them and makes them healthier. It wasn't completely useless as it can hew stone and iron like butter and the resulting debris has a 5% chance to turn into 10 lbs. of assorted gemstones."
86,"Dryad's Heart: Considered a blessing by the willing and a curse by the uninitiated this ornate amber, bone, wood, shell and jade beaded leather chest piece (+1 AC) transforms the wearer into a tree for 24 hours per day only recharging on the solstice. In the hands of a properly trained user of the Druidic language they can mark or tattoo their skin over time to lessen some of the more extreme effects. At low levels it gives the druid the ability to turn into a tree and back twice per day, leading to two charges of Barkskin per day while wearing it at level 5, and finally at level 10 it allows you to wildshape into a Treant. At level 16 your connection to Nature is so profound that you become the earthly anchor to your own NPC Dryad residing inside you that you may transfer to another tree should the need arise."
87,"The Thorncrown of the Forest King - a crown grown from thornbush, it will only obey a true friend of the forest. When worn and deemed worthy, it gives the wearer the ability to speak with nature and he will gain +5 on every check on nature or plant medicine. If the crown is stolen, every animal will turn hostile towards the carrier until it is brought back to its owner."
88,"Amulet of the Harvest Beast: Any animal you successfully hunt and any plants you pick yields double what you would normally find. When you're in Wildshape, expending a single spell slot to heal yourself instead acts as if you were using two spell slots of the same level."
89,Rat totem: A rat skull painted in red war paint. If used successfully it summons a swarm of shadowy rats with red glowing eyes that cannot be targeted by physical weapons and behave like a swarm type encounter. They cannot fail climb checks and move extremely fast. Enemies attacked three times in a row by shadow rats will be climbed by rats taking continuously more damage and being encumbered/slowed.
90,"Sprig of the Abomination: while attuned to this sprig, you can expend 2 uses of wild shape to assume a hybrid beast form. See the monster manual's section on lycanthropy for the statistics of hybrid forms."
91,Marshflitter Hive: These symbiotic 6 inch-long mosquito-wasps have flyby and drain 1 HP per round and share it with you. Their hive hangs off your backpack or over your shoulder. Every level gives you a new mature adult emerging from the hive (Up to four that understand Druidic).
92,"Rock Troll Half Plate: This armor consists of overlapping pieces of rock-troll hide. It always looks pristine within a day after any skirmish as though the hide still retains some qualities its former owner. The fire bramble fiber weave gives off a faint glow and keeps you warm in cold weather, as well as keeps the hide's otherwise tenacious regeneration in check. The smell however..."
93,Windshear: An ornate scimitar that is infused with the power of the four main winds. Upon a successful hit one medium or smaller creature must succeed on a Strength save or be pushed up to 5 feet away from you. It can also be held towards a sail to aid you on windless days at sea.
94,"The Crown of Moonlit Winters: A shimmering circlet made from enchanted ice and decorated with Druidic runes. The crown has a soft inner luminescence reminiscent of the night sky, making the wearer emit dim light in a 10-foot radius while they wear it. Attuning to the crown grants the wearer the ability to use the crown’s properties, as well as immunity to cold damage as well as blindsight out to 60 feet. Both properties can only be used if the wearer is directly under the open night sky. Once per day, the wearer may use an action to use the crown’s Herald of Winter property to change the weather in a 3-mile around the point they activate this property to some sort of snowy weather of the wearer’s choosing. This weather can range anywhere from a gentle snowfall to a moderately strong blizzard, and requires 1d4 minutes for the new conditions to take effect. The weather lasts for 8 hours, and requires no concentration to maintain. In addition, three times per day, the wearer may use an action to use the crown’s Freezing Light property. The wearer may conjure a brilliant moonbeam from the sky, filled with fast-moving freezing mist, forcing all creatures in its 10 foot radius between the ground and the sky to make a Constitution saving throw against the wearer’s spell save DC. A creature takes 3d10 cold damage and 3d10 radiant damage on a failed save, or half as much on a successful one. Any creature that fails the saving throw is also blinded and has their movement speed reduced to 0 for the next minute as their eyes are burned and their feet are frozen. The creature can make a Constitution saving at the end of each of its turns. On a success, the creature is no longer blinded and its movement speed is returned to normal."
95,"Falling Leaf: A mottled copper scimitar that is colored in the shades of autumn. Etchings of various leaves cover the flat of the blade and sway gently as though exposed to an invisible wind. The scimitar is a +2 magical weapon innately, with an additional property that can be activated if the wielder attunes to the blade. Once per day, the wielder may use an action to use the blade’s Shroud of Autumn property if they are attuned to the scimitar. The wielder calls forth a swirling cyclone of leaves around themselves in a 5-foot radius for up to a minute. While the cyclone is active, all ranged attacks made against the wielder have disadvantage. If the property is used while within an area with moderate density foliage, the cyclone instead has a 10-foot radius and causes all melee attacks to be made with disadvantage as well. The wielder also gains the ability to use their reaction to cause a ranged attack passing through the cyclone to automatically miss its target. The wielder may stop the cyclone and have the leaves drift away using a bonus action on their turn. If the property is used while within an area with high-density foliage, the cyclone gains new benefits in addition to the previous improvements. The cyclone instead has a 15-foot radius, which is considered difficult terrain while the cyclone is active, and all ranged attacks not made by the wielder automatically miss if they enter the cyclone. One time while the cyclone is active, the wielder can form blade replicas from the swirling leaves to attack a multitude of foes. By doing so, the wielder uses an action to make a single melee weapon attack with the scimitar against any number of creatures inside the cyclone, with a separate attack roll for each target."
96,Coral Marstaff: A reef-like quarterstaff that is covered in suspended globules of water which act as portals to the nearest body of water. Reaching in one can retrieve fish or marine animals up to five feet long. If used with two hands and braced it will halve the damage of all fire-based attacks in a twenty-foot radius.
97,"Heart of Pando: A symbiotic sapling that can bond itself to an individual and creates it's own forest of cloned trees over time. Should you die the trees can birth up to three new avatars of yourself over time. Your clones are named Harold, Bob, and Herbert but should you die a forth time you become one with the forest forever."
98,"Primal Crystals of Akaroth: Each crystal representing the four elements adds 1d4 damage of that type to your attacks. Your animal wildshapes are now made out of those elements (fire, water, earth, air) should you choose."
99,"Moon Sickle of Cressk: Using this platinum, silver, and gold weapon to harvest mistletoe under light of the full moon lets you make a Druid Grove permanent in only half the time (6 months in-game). If you happen to find a suitable stump you can leave this weapon and the requisite material components in a forcecage within the Druid Grove and in one year it will have been made permanent by trapping a small part of you in a time loop just long enough to complete the ritual. Occasionally it has been known to fail and release a druid from the time loop should they die elsewhere."
100,"Mask of the Crystal Sea: an egg shaped mask cut from an angular, opalescent crystal. The wearer of this mask not only gains +3 to perception checks to spot fey creatures but also receives fey as a bonus language. The fairies of the western wood call the mask “Syliang” meaning “god shorn.”"

d100,Entry

1,A massive bubbling cauldron. Inside it is a disgusting mixture of god knows what.
2,A small collection of caged rats.
3,A overflowing jar of teeth.
4,Eyes of various creatures.
5,An active mirror of life trapping.
6,Dust of sneezing and choking.
7,"A small child, apparently unharmed."
8,"A drum, covered in a mysterious skin."
9,Paintings and sculptures of prominent townspeople.
10,A deep water well built into the room.
11,An Ogre or Giants severed toe.
12,The still beating heart of some unknown humanoid.
13,A talking skull.
14,A set of giant steel manacles that look like they could hold a giant.
15,A petrified gazer.
16,Seven jars filled with blood. One of them has recently been emptied.
17,A plant pot containing a Shrieker that screams when you touch it.
18,A crate filled with rotted children’s clothing and old toys.
19,Six inches of orange tinted water on the floor.
20,A ball of snot-like sludge hanging from the ceiling.
21,A chest with an ungodly amount of sweets.
22,A book full of delicately preserved wings from butterflies and other small insects.
23,A cyclops’ eye that has a bite taken out of it.
24,A back scratcher made from a severed bony hand.
25,"A pin board of insects found in the swamp or Underdark, like strange beetles."
26,"The preserved, leathery head of a dwarf."
27,"A strange jar of cultured jelly. Upon closer inspection, you find it is a tiny-sized ooze or oblex in a jar."
28,"An eyeball in a tube of yellow viscous fluid, sealed with a cork. The eye moves and looks around."
29,An old tarnished silver bell. Ringing it casts Toll The Dead once a day.
30,A copper ring in the dirt that has a rat's chewing marks in it.
31,"A jar with an overweight toad crammed into it, that sings when lifted."
32,"Half of a beehive covered in Infernal writing. When the honeycomb is broken, an Imp is summoned."
33,"A scruffy, scarred pigeon that nests in the rafters. Its regular sounds are replaced by snippets of the hags voice yelling insults."
34,"An Annis Hag has a huge rusty nail, the length of a forearm. The person holding it feels paranoid and cruel, but gains advantage on Perception checks."
35,"A skull of any local beast, a candle melting upon it. When the candle is snuffed out, the eye sockets glow red. It then materializes the rest of the body as a specter, until the eyes are gouged out. The candle will then re-ignite. While a specter, the creature is a neutral undead, and simply watches and wanders about, being all spooky. Works best as a small creature, like a cat or raven."
36,An unusually large slug in a cage that produces extremely sticky ooze.
37,A small garden growing a bunch of weird herbs.
38,A large alembic which is currently distilling a medium ochre jelly.
39,A display case of flattened beast ears arranged in such a way that a distant observer may mistake it for a butterfly display.
40,A dresser whose drawers are overflowing with loose hairs. A player who searches through the hair will find a vial of antitoxin.
41,A mannequin wearing a crusty set of fine clothes which appear to have been soaked entirely in blood which has now dried completely. There are no visible stains on the mannequin.
42,A bird's cage containing a wererat.
43,Bones from humanoid hands which have been fastened together into a headdress.
44,"A shattered mirror. The mirror shows a decaying and zombie-like version of the players, but a beautified version of the hag."
45,Chicken feathers sticking out of the ground in bizarre patterns.
46,A wooden chest with a beating heart in it.
47,An apple that reveals itself to be rotten if eaten.
48,A dead bird tied to the ceiling.
49,Glass orb containing the souls of screaming children.
50,A suit of armor that was once a man.
51,People converted into anthropomorphic kelp.
52,Tentacle from a vampire squid.
53,Eye of newt jar. Half full.
54,Dried batwing.
55,"A cursed gold chain necklace. Once put on it cannot be removed. When the wearer speaks a lie a link is magically removed from the chain, the link clatters loudly to the ground. Lie enough and it begins to choke the wearer."
56,"A journal by a young lass from a hundred years ago. The entries are positive, optimistic, romantic. Somewhere in the her late teens she falls in love for a fellow and at the same time she's visited by nightmares, headaches and visions. Strangely the visions darkly warn her that her lover is dangerous, something she refuses to believe even when other things she sees in them come to pass. She writes that she plans to run away with him before the journal abruptly ends. A knowledge check might reveal that the symptoms she describes are signs of a changeling coming into her power on the path to becoming a hag."
57,"A freshly baked pie, its crust perfectly buttered."
58,"A bouquet of flowers, suspended upside down to dry, smelling pleasantly of notes of lavender and rose buds."
59,A jar of candy wrapped in brightly colored wax paper.
60,"A cracked hand mirror, which always shows a shadowy figure to be standing behind the one looking in it. Sometimes, the figure moves."
61,"A child's patchwork doll, missing a button eye and stained in blood."
62,A starved and maimed goblin in an iron cage. He rattles the bars rather than react to the visitors. It is clear it went mad long ago.
63,An immortal monkey that looks normal but quickly reveals his undead nature in the moonlight.
64,"A massive tapestry hung from the wall. Strange symbols and stranger images fill every space, chaotically strewn about the threadwork with no apparent pattern. No centralized theme or focus can be made out, but the likeliness of several important figures and deities can be made out amongst alien creatures and other, unknown people. The tapestry is unfinished on one side, making it obvious that the project is still a work in progress."
65,"An almost person-sized hourglass dangling from a rope tied to the ceiling. In place of sand, tiny teeth of all shapes and kinds flow between the two bulbs, each one glowing with a faint red light. The flow of the device switches directions at random times for no visible reason, with no bulb ever holding all the teeth."
66,"A tattered ball gown, it’s faded green color and shredded edges indicating its impressive age. It drifts gently through the air as if carried by an invisible wind, moving haphazardly but never touching the room. Attempts to grab the dress automatically fail without the use of magic, the dress always fluttering just out of reach. Once grabbed, the dress stops permanently stops moving and shows no sign of its previously magical nature."
67,"A heavy old tome with yellowed pages and a blank cover. The book does not match the design of the surrounding books, and has a somewhat homemade feel to it. Nearly all the pages are filled with impressively lifelike sketches of an assortment of common folk, each with a smile on their face. All the drawings seem to be situated in the same village, with a single family and house appearing more frequently than any of the others. The members of that family each bear a slight resemblance to the hag."
68,"A severed head taken from a rival long ago. The neck seeps blood from its wound, and constantly softly whispers nigh incoherently, saying all that the witch had learnt from her long-lived life, tales of old, hidden secrets and recipes long forgotten, to name a few."
69,An aged drawing of the current PCs that entered the lair.
70,A goblin in a cage that speaks common eloquently.
71,A large firefly in a cage that will listen to commands. Glows red with the effect of Light.
72,"A life size ""voodoo"" fetish that looks eerily like one of the PCs."
73,"A skeleton on an elaborate wooden throne that will suddenly scream and crumple if a PC approaches it, laying a curse on that PC."
74,A neatly organized tackle box containing a collection of human fingers and toes.
75,A pair of slippers that automatically adjusts to be as comfortable as possible for their wearer.
76,A piece of chalk which when used to write a persons full name causes that person to shiver. It ceases to work once all the chalk is exhausted.
77,"A fancy paper hat which causes the wearer to attract bees, wasps, hornets, and bumblebees, which remain non-hostile until the wearer removed the hat."
78,A glass bottle filled with a foul tasting dark blue liquid. If consumed the liquid convinces the person who consumed it that they are going to die as a result.
79,"A large white table cloth that can be used to set a table. When its command word is spoken it cleans itself of all stains and food, then folds itself into a neat triangle."
80,A decorative wine glass that poisons any liquid inside of it with cyanide when a command word is spoken (cheers).
81,A stack of love letters written in Abyssal penned by a demon who apparently was smitten by the sight of the hag during a planar jaunt. Appears that the interest was unrequited.
82,"A basin of murky water that is constantly scrying a young girl, possibly a changeling. Vials of three colors with a dropper sit on the rim of the basin. Dropping the blue liquid in the basin visits the girl with good luck, red delivers bad luck to a someone near her, but the black inky liquid has no apparent effect."
83,An origami figure of a stork. Has a faint conjuration aura to it.
84,"A broken arrow atop a bottle of rain. Holding the bottle allows you to walk on water. Holding the arrow turns your hand to steel (you do twice the damage of an unarmed strike, but take disadvantage on tasks requiring two hands. You can pry the arrow from your hand—but careful if you take too long both your hands will turn to steel)."
85,"A cage with the skeletal remains of two small humanoids, the hand of one clutching the hand of the other."
86,"Erikkson the Philosophical Scarecrow. This scarecrow sits motionless in a part of the room, but will animate when he deems it necessary. He loves to eat straw (and flesh), and loves to tell riddles. He especially loves it when his riddles win him the flesh of others. But he doesn't cheat. He is a genuine and fair scarecrow. He wont eat any more than has been agreed on. If he says he will play riddles for a PC's hand, then he will keep his word. He also LOVES to talk about the metaphysical nature of the world."
87,"Two voodoo-esque dolls of other hags, with faint magic within, from when she tried to create a coven with the souls of dead hags."
88,"A cauldron that can be used as a ritual focus. When used in ritual magic, the DC goes up 1 per person (limited to 3)."
89,Corrupted rings of resistance (which are cursed to grant vulnerability instead).
90,"A black cat sits curled up on a chair. When you approach, he remains unmoved, and trying to interact with him you find him immovable. If you attempt to sit on him/in the chair, you are cursed by the chair as the cat appears upon your lap and is the same as an immovable rod place on your knees."
91,"There is an alchemy desk with the accouterments you would expect. Eyes in jars, fingers in candlestick holders, with thin wicks coming out of the tips, animal parts, and grisly looking things you don't think about too much. Despite everything, you can't but find yourself feeling extremely hungry while examining it."
92,"The hag's kitchen is a marvel of inventive interior design, with hands that stick out of the walls, as though their owners were forced into the stone itself. The hands hold cups, cutlery, a set of keys, a hat, a dark cloak and hanging vegetables."
93,A severed foot with many different types of moss and fungi growing on it.
94,"A stomach and intestines hung on the wall, with a mouth connected to one end, and the other end leading into a barrel (I don't recommend opening the barrel). It must be fed regularly or it will jump off the wall and begin eating everything."
95,An undead toad in a glass jar with a miniature Sphere of Annihilation in its mouth.
96,"The shadow of a rat on the floor, which moves as a normal rat would. However, there is no rat, not even an invisible one."
97,"A mirror that shows a clown (or some scary thing) standing behind you. It isn't really there, and it doesn't seem to interact with you, but is very creepy."
98,A fist-sized gemstone to which the astral form of a trickster being is bound. Touching it allows you to see and communicate with the being. It begs that you reunite it with it's body.
99,A taxidermy beholder being used as a chandelier.
100,A group of small children trapped in a cage.

d100,Entry

1,Making Friends; a History of Necromancy.
2,A Treatise on the Problem of Infinite Demiplanes
3,"Ozohr's Compendium of Glyphs for Crystalline Structures, Fifth Edition"
4,Analysis of Divination Spell Extension into the Astral Plane
5,This Spell is Harmless' and Other Lies To Tell Yourself
6,"Dragons, Drakes, and Winged Demons; a Guide to Fire Breathers"
7,Hefty and Heavy; Proper wand shaping for beginners
8,"Common Rune Mistakes and Their Consequences, a Summary"
9,Fireball Illustrated
10,Aardvarks to Anvils; Unique uses for Polymorph
11,The Arcana-Sutra
12,The Illusion of Space; A primer on Conjuration Magic
13,"1,000 Prophecies to Keep Your Eye On"
14,A Humble Collection of Heresies
15,Survival in the Outer Planes and in the Astral Sea
16,Those That Came Before; An Overview of Extinct Magical Traditions and What We Can Learn from Them
17,"Darkness; Creating, Dispelling, and Exploiting It"
18,Advanced Draconic Anatomy
19,Angels and How to Avoid Them
20,"10,000 Runes Without Meaning"
21,Spellbook Minimalism
22,"Understanding the Alien Minds of Gods, Outsiders, and Yet Stranger Creatures"
23,The Magic of Stone and the Souls of Mountains
24,This Ore That; Choosing your first Rock Golem
25,Beyond the Cauldron - Brewing Potions in the Wilderness; a Personal Story
26,Proof of a Positive Relationship Between Leysian Crossings and Levitation Enchantment Potency
27,Gwynssin Revisited: The Transformative School of Enchantment in the Eleventh Century
28,"Introductory Life Extension, Revised Edition - Now 100% dark magic free!"
29,Great Spirit Aid: A Study of Unique Varieties of Incorporeal Summoning Among the Northwestern Tribes!
30,Ten Basic Shields: A Revolutionary New Way to Categorize Abjurations!
31,The Common Genealogical Ancestor of Kobolds & Lizardfolk!
32,"The Science of Magic, a Treatise"
33,Rags to Reigns - a Traveler's Guide to the Nine Hells
34,Making the Most of Your Allies; Why You Should Focus on Transmutation and Necromancy
35,101 Easy Magic Items You Can Make on the Road
36,Our Darker Sisters; A Cautionary Volume on the Dangers of Dealing with Hags
37,lasreveR fo kooB s'karalS (also known as An Abjurer's Guide to Counterspelling)
38,On the Transmutation of Gold to Lead - A primer
39,A Perditio Tempus; My journey to making True Strike good again
40,Myths of Malumnak the Mad; a collection of stories about that craziest of wizards
41,Analysis of the Extended Lifetime of Draconic Respiratory-Flame Droplets in a Turbulently Vaporized Floomph Puff
42,Relative Temporo-Thaumic Desynchronization Transitions in Hasted Targets
43,A Vortex of Annihilation in a Tea-cup - Practical Applications of Collapsing Spheres
44,Evidence of Omni-Planar Asymmetries Seeded by High-Density Ablator Nonuniformity in Experiments Involving Deific Artifacts and Magically Simulated Dragon-fire
45,Convergence of Eigen-Tensor Continuations in Infinite Dimensional Kismet-Hazard Prognostications
46,Evidence of Potts-Neme-Tenseric Superfluidity in Non-agonal Optical Levitation
47,"Direct Observation of Fractal-Dimensional Percolation in Renal Pyramids - In Search of the Philosopher's Kidney-stone, Diary of a Personal Journey"
48,Fast Friends; An Autobiographical Account Regarding Dangerous and Morally Ambiguous Misuses of Charm Spells
49,Treatise on Temporal Foresight in Divination
50,Annals of Grafted Incarnum: Soul Splicing
51,Practical Applications of the Demiplane Spell
52,Arcane Tearing: An Enchanting Primer
53,The Complete Guide to Bypassing the Crystal Sphere's Barrier
54,Complete Compendium of Deific Dogma
55,The Philandering Philosophy in Respect to the Power Scale of Magic Users: A Deep Observation
56,Syntax and Semantics in Spell Components
57,"A Critical Review of Every Known Spell, The Complete Collection, 5th edition (23 volumes)"
58,Selective Topics in the Stylistics of Spellcasting
59,Gendry's Guide to Non-gullible Golems
60,The Titillating Truth of Tubular Tome Making
61,The Delirious Despot: A Psychoanalytic Approach
62,Elder Evils' Encyclopedia
63,Unabridged Atlas of Arcane Observations in Astronomy
64,Vellum of Viscous Vindication: Curse Construction
65,Magnum Opus of Mythallar Musing
66,Contemporary Codex of Celestial Cadavers
67,Death's Ancestors; An Etymological Analysis of the Words of Power
68,A Cultural History of Dark Magic
69,The Element of Destruction; An Exploration of Primordial Evocation Magics
70,Competing Elemental Theories
71,Meditations on the Feasibility of Chronomancy
72,Wild Magic and Mesuring Risk
73,A Compendium of the Many Moods of the Weave
74,The Life and Death of Gods
75,Martial Skills and Tactics for the Adventuring Wizard
76,The Lost Wonders of Epic Magic
77,The Lure of Lichdom; Meditations on Mortality
78,Alnam's Encyclopedia of Herbal Components
79,Probing Transport and Structure-Property Relationship of Highly Ordered Orgone Superthaums Lattices at the Ethereal-Material Planar Limit - Towards Living in an Immaterial World
80,"Unveiling Macroscopic Structures of Neutrally Charged Elemental Interfaces by Surface-Specific Vibrational Spectromagy - My Conversations with Water, and other Treatises."
81,"Complexified Paths, Integral Saddles; Sovereign Glue and the Super-sandwich Principle - Taming Magical Steeds via Liberal Application of Math-magical and Culinary Threats"
82,"Hidden Symmetries, Instabilities, and Currency Speculation Suppression in Brownie Rackets - How to beat Fey Loan Sharks at Their Own Game"
83,"Enhanced Stochastic Resonance and Spatiotemporal Synchronization in a Mass Hasted Party - A Stab in Time, Saves Thee and Thine"
84,"The Shape of the First Collapsed Objects - Ancient Architecture of the First Great Mage Empire, Magical Weaponry, and the Application There-of"
85,Emerging Patterns in Oscillatory Absorption of Thaumo-Ultra-Acoustic Waves - Using Suggestion and Modify Memory to Get Ahead
86,"Exponentia Foramina & The Leyline Convergence Matrix, Inter Alia"
87,Mordenkainen's Toenails and Chrysolite Powder's Usefulness in the Discernment of Arcano-Confounding Proto-Runes
88,Trans-substantial Passage of Quickened Objects or Entities Without Persistent Liminal Agency of Hyperagonal Media
89,Sustained Transpontine Circumpenetration - Secrets of Sigil Stone
90,On Post-Morpholiths and Proto-Daedric Sigils in the Pnakotic Testaments - All Signs Point to 'Nope'
91,Essential Geomantic Engineering for Those of Average Intelligence
92,"Philosophy of Low-Energy Magery - a Confoundingly Incomplete Treatise, with Editor's Commentary"
93,On the Sending Out of the Soul
94,Parchments of Pnom - A Complete and Original Translation
95,"Las Reglas de Ruina - translated to the Common Vernacular by Meisters Theodorius and Chevillion, with Commentary and Compleat Appendix"
96,Seven Cryptical Books of Hsan - The Dream-Quest of Unknown Kadath Explained
97,Search for Heavy Resonance Decaying in the Phase of the Ethereal Plane
98,Pressure Effects on Phlogiston Among Other Parameters in Limbo Environment
99,Ultrafast Evocation Dynamics and Interactions in Complex Weave Networks
100,Organic Energy Cells: Degradation Processes and Approaches to Enhance Performance

d100,Entry

1,"BRONOCALOS - Demon Lord of Warped Bones and Emaciation: Bronocalos causes crippled and sickly babies to be born, people to grow hunchbacked, and limbs to atrophy."
2,"SAHARNA: Saharna’s touch makes men strong and powerful, but it also makes them slowly lose their sense of self control, eating away their ability to restrain themselves from physical violence."
3,"CANTUS - Demon Lord of the Maddening Melody: Cantus resides in its lair, built beneath a bard’s college, where it whispered its melody to all that studied there. The melody obsesses those who hear it, dedicating the victims to spreading the melody as far as they can. This melody leads those who hear it to become thralls to Cantus, or to madness for those who tried to resist."
4,"ESURIO - Demon Lord of Gluttonous Greed: Esurio's hunger is as voracious as his greed. He eats anything that holds value - be it gold, gems, statues, or art. This greed fuels him and is the source of his strength, and he grows more powerful, the more he consumes."
5,"THE REMAINS OF VETITI: The Remains of Vetiti are twisted remains of a demon lord who sought forbidden knowledge. His lower body is still intact, but everything above the armpit is gone. From the remains of his chest come the tentacled mass of an eldritch horror."
6,"GIZOGOTH - The Whisper King: Gizogoth resembles a short, bloated humanoid with the grotesque head of an insect. Gizogoth's servants, small corrupted flies and gnats, buzz throughout the world, whispering lies and rumors in the ears of mistrustful masses."
7,QUISIPHISTIS - Demon Lord of Festering Peace: Quisiphistis wants nothing more than to cover up problems so that they are never solved. He loves to build towers and empires that look solid and immovable on the outside but are actually flimsy and fragile within. Nothing brings more joy to Quisiphistis than the moment when it all comes crashing down.
8,"TALAZAR - Demon Lord of the Flesh: Talazar is a master craftsman who works entirely with flesh, muscle, and sinew. He considers himself a sculptor and spends his time constructing horrifying, fleshy constructs that defy all expectations. Victims of Talazar have their still-living bodies twisted into impossible shapes and put on display somewhere public. Followers of Talazar must sacrifice a piece of their own flesh to win his favor, preferably an eye, extremity, or spare organ. The void left by the sacrifice is smoothed over by the worshipper's own flesh, like soft clay."
9,"MUNDI - Demon Lord of the Darkness: With a flick of his wrist, all light disappears. Some folk in the land say he is older than the gods, and he may even be older than the material plane. His magic makes anyone cry out in terror. He can make an entire army of demons in seconds, which could wipe out a whole city in minutes. Mundi seems to phase in and out of existence instantly. In fact, even when near, no one knows that he’s there."
10,"NIMIR - Demon Lord of the Ruinous Oblivion: A massive, invisible figure draped in cloth. Nimir oversees the creation of wraiths. When it is time to create a wraith, Nimir descends to the ethereal plane and infuses a soul with a massive rush of negative energy."
11,"KILORVAS - The Defeated; Demon Lord of Defeat: Those who lose in battles seek Kilorvas for revenge. Be it out of spite or a just cause, if someone goes to him, their next battle will have an extra helping hand."
12,"PSYNOTROP - The Forgetful; Demon Lord of Missing Thoughts: Psynotrop is the lord of missing thoughts. He is at work when one puts down their tool. turns around, and forgets where they placed them. He is the reason one leaves their house but has to return because they don’t remember if they locked the door. Psynotrop erases and steals memories, and he can even make his victims forget their family and wander aimlessly, feeling empty."
13,"RYOSANOP - The False: Brother to Psynotrop, Ryosanop places false memories the heads of his victims. Because of him, one might remember picking up groceries, only to discover they imagined it. A victim might believe they submitted their thesis on aquatic dragons to find out it wasn’t even started. Ryosanop’s power is the reason some people spend the rest of their life looking for a love that never existed."
14,"RETHOR / ROHATOR / RAHOR: He exists, maybe. He casts doubt onto the mind of the weak, probably. He might have abilities beyond that, but no two people seem to agree on what his abilities are. Or if he even exists. Thinking about his existence causes confusion and doubt most of the time. But sometimes not, so no one is sure what it is."
15,"ZILMINEY - The Nonexistent: Zilminey is, actually, the existent. She was born when numerous lost souls formed into one, ever-changing entity. And although his existence is confirmed, everything about them changes when one thinks about her. In fact, some say Feroghit has existed before the world was even created, but no one really knows anything about them. Or if he even exists… but she definitely exists."
16,"EMMET ARIAN - Demon Lord of Clockwork: A 9-foot tall demon obsessed with metallic and magical perfection, he has very few normal minions. Mostly, he builds his own twisted clockwork versions of demons and devils. Emmet’s general and his masterpiece is Belos, the Clockwork Balor. Emmet resides in a mobile workshop where he constantly builds constructs to do his bidding, while Belos patrols the grounds."
17,"RHAINIR - Demon Lord of Jealousy: Constantly rejected by demons who could not love, Rhainir grew jealous of the mortal races. Trying to win affections from mortals, he began to kill or kidnap those who would reject him. He showers his ""lovers"" with gifts - many of which are addictive, causing his victims to mistake their reliance on him for love. Rhainir also encourages spurned lovers to bring ruin upon their own rejectors. Finally, Rhainir is vain, constantly altering himself to look perfect - a vision that changes with every perceived insult he encounters."
18,"ANOR - The Bored One: Appearing as an adventurer, Anor offers high-octane adventure. Those who take his offer are subsequently trapped individually, in a room with one bed, one chair, a mirror, and some sort of magical lighting system. Victims are provided one meal a day, and each room has a door that cannot be opened from the inside by any way. Victim are kept imprisoned until figuratively bored to death, unless they go insane or continue trying to escape. The rooms are never in the same place, and multiple rooms are never near to each other, in order to avoid freed victims from freeing each other."
19,"TARSIOX - The Smith: Tarsiox seeks warriors and appears to them as a mastersmith. He offers to forge his victims the best armor they'll wear in their life, and when the victim accepts, scraps of metal suddenly appear and cover the victim's body from head to toe - save for their eyes and mouth. The poor soul is trapped within the armor, which cannot be easily removed. The armor requires weekly maintenance. The victim can see, speak, and eat; but expelling anything from the armor is not an easy task. Therefore, personal hygiene is something to be forgotten, especially since water makes the metal rust."
20,"THURKOS - The Silent Watcher: Thurkos appears like a shadow man with glasses. When bored, he searches for a victim to watch and appears behind them, staring endlessly. His victims constantly have the sensation of being watched, but he quickly disappears if the victims starts looking for him. His victims become paranoid and mad."
21,"OLMON - Demon Lord of the Void: Olmon sits atop a granite throne in a barren throne room, somewhere in the pits of the Abyss. He is thin and grey skinned, and where a face should be, there is an infinite chasm instead. He wishes to make all of existence one with the Void, but lacks the strength to do so on his own."
22,"GERRIMOR - Demon Lord of Bad Luck: Gerrimor subtly influences the fates of every mortal in the planes. Everything from minor inconveniences to horrific tragedies can be traced back to the influence and presence of Gerrimor. He appears as a deformed, skeletal cow head, and his presence is marked by the stench of rotting meat."
23,"KIITH - Holder of True Names: Responsible for naming newborn demon lords in the Abyssal tongue, Kiith is able to seek the true name of any living being. While it could use this power to rule the entire Abyss, Kiith instead chooses to spend eternity tormenting other demon lords with names that are either unpronounceable (“Yyaldobravoth”), incredibly long (its current record takes 5 years, 243 days, 5 hours, 6 minutes and 21 seconds to pronounce), dangerously short (“E”), or simply silly-sounding (“Gollywabble”)."
24,"GOLLYWABBLE - The Broken Automaton: As various geniuses invented automated machinery to aid their lives, a critical malfunction by them birthed a new demon lord. Now, Gollywabble seeks its own death through erasing all functional technology, starting with the inventions that keep mortals alive."
25,"FIDRIA - The Unknowable: Fidria knows that which nobody else knows. Everything mortals have learned but forgotten, lost, or destroyed enters Fidria’s boundless knowledge. As a result, it is affiliated with amnesiacs and makes bargains with them - their memories returned for their eternal servitude. It has been said Fidria takes the forms of the deceased who have been forgotten by both history and their lineage."
26,"YYALDOBRAVOTH: A being made of dark tendrils and viscera, Yyaldobravoth was sealed deep underground by an ancient race. From its subterranean prison, he sends random people visions of his chamber's location to lure them there. Once they arrive, Yyaldobravoth transforms them into twisted aberrations made of the same black tendrils and dripping gore his is made of. He exerts his influence on the world through these beings, using them as pawns to do his bidding. He hopes to eventually find a way to free himself, so he can make the whole world his personal army of aberrations."
27,"VIXIL - The Tickler; Demon Lord of Tickles: A demonic vortex composed entirely of feathers floating in air, Vixil never harm his victims, but he will cause tremendous stress due to excessive laughter. Souls who die from laughter join his army, and each soul is put into a jester costume and sent out to cause laughter in the demon lord's name."
28,"SERGORIUS - The Demonic Orc Lord: Sergorious lives only to destroy everything in his path. The more destruction, the better."
29,"ASHURATH - Demon Lord of Forbidden Knowledge: Ashurath carves out the eyes of the warlocks and liches who seek a pact with her in order to extend life or to have control over the living and dead. They can use her magic, but their sockets continuously burn as if the knife that carved out their eyes is still in them."
30,DAGOTH - The Living Nightmare: Dagoth causes men to be driven insane by what they fear most.
31,ATURIAS - The Void: Aturias drains victims of emotion to feed its own lifeforce.
32,"MYRONIR - Demon Lord of Reflections: Myronir brings waves of doppelgängers to attack enemies with. He uses magic to see through mirrors and causes people to see their reflections as horrible, twisted versions of themselves."
33,CARRION - Demon Lord of Music and Guile: Carrion is a trickster demon lord whose musical magic brings about random effects to those who listen. The effects can be either good or bad - it can range anywhere from transforming people into animals to adding years to their lifespan. He is a common deity for tiefling bards.
34,"R’REECTH - The Thirstful; Demon Lord of Thirst: R'reecth appears as a desiccated man with cracked, parched lips and a swollen, black tongue protruding from his mouth. His eyes are hollow, sunken pits; and his skin is sun-scorched and stretched taut across his skeletal frame. His touch drains living tissue of its fluid."
35,"SHAANAATH - Show Who Coils in the Dark; Demon Princess of Cold-Blooded Predatory Death in the Night: ShaaNaath appears as a pair of reptilian eyes that peer from a permanent patch of darkness. The eyes flow with an eerily fluid grace, constantly seeking to move behind a person."
36,"ERGAALESH - Demon Queen of Sandstorms and Locusts: Though Ergaalesh is not physically powerful, her coming is the coming of cataclysm, as entire cities are buried and farmland laid to waste by swarms of insects."
37,"MUZCABEEL - Demon Queen of Flies: Gluttonous and ill-tempered, Muzcabeel's mere presence causes food to spoil and maggots to rise from the ground in loathsome masses. Muzcabeel resembles a gruesomely corpulent humanoid with a gaping maw in her torso. Out of the torso pours an endless, black cloud of flies."
38,"KANEBAL LUR MUL - Demon Lord of Cannibals: Kanebal Lur Mul earns his titles because he has a tendency to devour any who oppose him - literally. Whether they are rival demons or celestials, he views their devouring as the ultimate form of dominance one can have. He gains power from those he feasts upon, and to join a pact with him, he expects victims to eat whatever is dear to them. He wades into combat without weapons or armor, and when assuming a physical form, he looks like a cross between and dragon, a wolf, and an oni. His colors are red and white."
39,"IZZURAD and MAZOR: Twin demon lords whose avarice is second only to their jealousy of one another, a mortal's dealings with one brother usually involves stealing something of value from the other. This invariably results in wrathful retaliation against this foolish mortal."
40,"RALGAD - The Repentant: One thousand years ago, Ralgad was the Lord of Lies but was defeated and imprisoned within a stone. He was held for centuries by a holy order of paladins who were eventually able to convince him to repent of his sins. Ralgad now works diligently to subvert other demon lords' evil machinations. Of course, there are those who believe that Ralgad is as evil as he ever was, and this is simply another lie. Others say his selfless actions prove his good intentions. But only time will tell"
41,"BRUGGATH - The Dreadmother: With her terrible wail, Bruggath claims the souls of the stillborn. Under her nurture, they learn to feed on the suffering of the living."
42,"SITHORITH - Demon Lord of the False Face: A female demon lord, Sithorith appears to be an angel clad in red. However, the red gown is made of sewn-together organs, and her feathers are made of thousands of tiny, razor-sharp bones."
43,"NEATHA: Neatha is a demon duchess who meticulously records the stories and lives of any soul she comes to possess. Her library of stories overflows. Within the library, her unruly minions are always inaccurately copying pages, not checking if the pages even needed to be copied. When a living soul finds themselves in Neatha's domain, she allows them to leave but only if they forfeit a memory to her."
44,"ELDRAGOTH - The Space Between Stars: Eldragoth appears to be a small humanoid with a body composed of moving nebulas. He seeks to shake the very foundations of order and law but not before corrupting mortals with elder knowledge. Eldragoth is known to possess people when an opportunity arises, as he cannot walk the material plane on his own."
45,"AITHZIEK - Demon Lord of Bastards: Aithziek appears as a 9-foot tall, horned woman in a torn and bloody wedding dress. She sends her minions to seduce young, unmarried men and women; and she also sends them out to corrupt those born out of wedlock."
46,"GREZALPITH - The Imp King: A 3-foot tall, winged imp wearing an oversized crown, Grezalpith commands an army of 10,000 lesser imps. Other demon lords keep him around to wage ""war"" on other demon lords purely for entertainment."
47,"ZARGAZU - The Bound; Demon Lord of Slaves and the Sacrificed: Zargazu appears as a 6-foot tall human with thousands of chains hooked into his skin. His only job is to figure out which tortured soul belongs to which demon lord. Additionally, Zargazu is constantly beaten by other demon lords."
48,"SHEMMIR - The Worm; Demon Lord of Rot and Decay: Shemmir’s physical body is weak, sickly, and malformed. He worms himself into hidden places and rots things from within, waiting patiently. He seeds sickness and disease until nothing's left alive and he can emerge to feed his unending appetite."
49,"GHAZZKULL - Prince of Pestilence: Ghazzkull is a demon in symbiosis with a gelatinous cube who serves Juiblex, the Faceless Lord, from the 329th layer of the Abyss. His body, once familiar to a humanoid shape, is now a melting, rotting corpse inside his cube's host body; and the two share a mind. Ghazzkull's corpulent frame emits a viscous sludge, which covers his lair and gives off a noxious fume that poisons even other demons."
50,"SVYLREN - Demon Lord of the Lost and Desperate: Svylren often appears to sailors lost at sea or travelers lost in the wilds, whispering false directions and driving them mad with desperation. Once the madness has caused them to isolate themselves further from rescue or murder their companions, Svylren moves in to feed on the remaining survivors."
51,"ABIS - Demon Lord of the Deep: Abis lies dormant in the impossibly deep trenches of the ocean, waiting for his worshippers to bring him the body of a kraken. Only after he finishes feasting on the kraken will his hunger return, and then, the waters of the world will run red with blood."
52,"XOROTH - Demon Lord of Pacts: Although often depicted as a hunched over figure with oversized glasses and a bony, spine protrusion, Xoroth is nothing to be underestimated. A master of loopholes and invisible ink, this lord can enforce any contract signed, and he will often trick or persuade both mortals and immortals out of their souls or power."
53,"ZVONIMIR - the Faceless Hunter; Demon Lord of the Self: Zvonimir slowly appears to victims in crowds and out of the corner of their eye with a face that seems familiar but is utterly unplaceable. After a while of being followed, victims begin detaching from themselves, forgetting things, and falling away from the world. At death’s door, victims see that Zvonimir wore their face all along."
54,"KREDOS - The Sallow King; Demon Lord of Rot: Wherever he walks, there is decay in Kredos’ shadow. Rust, plague, dead soil, and the slow dilapidation of things is his handiwork. It is said that lepers are possessed with his will."
55,"MEERNA - The Creeping Smile; Demon Lord of Sadism: Meerna reaches into the hearts of the weak-willed and makes them feel pleasure in cruelty. This starts as gallows humor or rumor mongering, but it will slowly grow in her victims until they cannot help but torture things for a giggle."
56,"MALGAMAR - The Hidden King: A fiend of great guile, Malgamar has charmed, deceived, and corrupted his way into positions of mortal power since the dawn of civilization. He clouds the minds of mayors, dukes, and kings alike; and he sends kingdoms into ruin and the world into chaos."
57,"SERCATER - The Iron Plaguebringer: Sercater is a vaguely humanoid mass of jagged, twisting metal. All living things in its vicinity become violently ill, and their bodies slowly turn to iron. There is no cure; the infected are doomed to become nothing more than sick, twisted statues."
58,"XULLCATH: A mighty demon lord who loves to watch powerful beings destroy each other, Xullcath will go to great lengths to instigate these battles."
59,YALBENOTH - Demon Lord of Apathy: Nothing can die in Yalbenoth’s presence because the souls of the dying cannot muster the desire to pass on.
60,"MADEMOISELLE FORTUNE - Demon Lord of Gambling: The left side of Mademoiselle Fortune’s body appears to be a beautiful and freckled, elven maiden; her right side is a hideous caricature of the left, with an inky, black complexion; a long, pointed chin; and a dagger-toothed grin that stretches to her distorted ear. The demon is made of the mind of the original demon lord of gambling and the body of a maiden that it won in a game of cards. Mademoiselle Fortune runs a cursed river boat through the layers of the Abyss, where gamblers and demons play for souls and hordes of gold."
61,"BISTET - The Destroyer: Bistet is a lesser demon lord who only seeks the minor destruction of nonliving things, such as furniture, decor, and structures. Most places look like a tavern at the end of a long and rowdy night when he is done."
62,"SASAHMEL - The Leper King: A golden mask covers Sasahmel’s rotting visage, and removing it unleashes a plague-cloud that infects those it touches with the demon's disease. The infected are doomed to join their king and his shambling host."
63,"LUCIANO - Demon Lord of Luck: While a relatively weaker demon lord, Luciano’s knowledge of the fabric of fortune gives him immense defensive power. He uses his ability to bind his fate to a random innocent. Whenever he receives damage, all damage that is done to him is also done to the innocent victim. Many that face Luciano cannot deal with the blood of innocents on their hands, and therefore, they cannot bear to fight him. (Radiant damage does not have this effect; it does not transfer to the victim)."
64,"ANREK - Demon Lord of Paralytic Joy: Anrek’s presence fills weak souls with love and happiness until they lose the will to participate in basic functions, such as eating or breathing. Souls with enormous, jagged smiles form her army. She grows stronger with the thankfulness of those she takes with her curse."
65,"THE DEVIL OF GAMBLING; THE KING OF DICE: This demon lord travels with a pair of mimics disguised as dice, and he disguises himself as a common traveler. He challenges others to a game of chance, promising amazing rewards. When the other party inevitably loses the rigged game, the devil claims their soul. (For some reason, this demon has an irrational fear of any kind of ceramic, drinking container)."
66,"CLASTONIR - Demon Lord of Broken Dreams and False Promises: Clastonir appears to the miserable and downtrodden, offering them promises of wealth and glory in exchange for their service. He usually appears to mortals as a slender, well-dressed man with a pale complexion and dark hair. Entering an agreement with him can be lucrative, but it always ends badly for mortals."
67,"MORTRANIAS - Demon Lord of Sickness: Mortranias is a sickly, mold=covered, skeletal entity wreathed in a shifting cloak of smoke and shadow. His very presence sickens those around him into coughing uncontrollably. Stories tell of him appearing when massive blights are brought upon the land."
68,"KAI-KHAN - The Mandarin: Kai-khan is the head bureaucrat of the underworld. He is happy to organise anyone’s eternal torment in the most efficient way possible, and he considers poor organisation the worst form of torture."
69,"KHAVSARSAN - The Black Blizzard: Disguised as a lone adventurer, one would only notice Khavsarsan by the icy gaze of his seemingly blind eyes. Where he steps, a deadly frost follows soon after. His goal is to spread his tundra-like domain and starve out all forms of life in his path."
70,"MĒ'TENS: Ruling over one of the most deeply-dreamed planes is the dread lord Mē'tens. Though he appears as a common, black housecat, Mē'tens is a powerful, necrotic sorcerer."
71,"DROGUGOUGACH - Corruptor of Giants: One of the tallest demon lords, Drogugougach loves to tempt powerful creatures of law into serving him and committing chaotic acts."
72,"IBISURSIA - Demon Lord of Owlbears: Ibisursia claims to have invented the owlbear, and whether or not that claim is true, Ibisursia uses them in her abyssal army - both the default variety and fiendish variants, such as an owl with the head of a bear."
73,"ABIUON - The Pale: Abiuon is a pale-white demon lord who has black eyes with a thousand little stars wandering inside. Although he is not a strong demon, anyone who stares in his eyes is possessed by his dreams. The victims believe these dreams with all their of hearts, and they live within these realistic dreams for the rest of their lives."
74,"OUKIN - The Charred One: Legends tell that Oukin was once one of the most beautiful demons, but the jealousy of others burned her skin completely. Now, her skin is like charcoal. and her eyes are no more than smoldering, empty circles. It is said that gazing into her eyes channels her wrath to the beholder, burning their bodies inside-out."
75,"GRONAEHA - Of a Thousand Heads: Gronaeha appears as a woman with one-hundred heads on long, tentacle necks. Gronaeha is patron demon of all multi-headed creatures, and she occasionally gifts her humanoid followers with additional heads."
76,"UMBRIUS - Demon Lord of Crushing Darkness: Umbrius is a creature that despises all light, and it's layer of the Abyss is among the darkest and most dangerous. Umbrius' sole purpose and desire is to drain all light from the multiverse."
77,ALVAREZ - The Purging Duke; Demon Lord of Torture and Inquisition: Alvarez is a master of torture who incessantly searches the ranks of the tanar'ri demons for signs of the taint of Law. Alvarez is famous for the brutalities he inflicts upon his own troops. Even other demons fear his inventive torments.
78,"ARZIAL - The Bloodied Baron; Master of the Barony of Vulderpayne; Minor Demon Lord of Subterfuge: Arzial is a cambion, born of the demon prince Graz'zt and, presumably, a human woman. His Barony of Vulderpayne resides in the Abyss, and he is the least accomplished of Graz'zt's many children. Though, Arzial still has a vital role in Graz'zt's schemes."
79,"ASEROTH - The Winter Warlock: Aseroth rules over the 566th Layer of the Abyss, ""Soulfreeze,"" which is a frigid place of ice so cold that, as the name implies, it can kill mortals by literally freezing out their souls."
80,"AZUVIDEXUS - The Ravenous Maw: Azuvidexus is concerned with primeval beasts and scaled nightmares, and Azuvidexus controls the domain of N'gharl."
81,"KARDUM - Demon Lord of Balors: Concerned with Balors and fire, Kardum lives on the 21st layer of the Abyss: The Sixth Pyre."
82,"LYNKHAB - Lady of Desire and Depression; Lady of Regrets: Lynkhab is patroness of the self-destructive and suicidal, and she was a contender for the title of ""Queen of Succubi""."
83,"URO - The Eternally Engulfed: A colossus engulfed in flame, Uro roams the planes, leaving behind dead ash in his wake. His travelling is not for the intent of destruction, but rather, he wanders to escape the torment of his flames."
84,"MAGAHAN - Demon Lord of Dread: Magahan is the lord who has enslaved 1,000 angels. His whips cleaves both bone and wing."
85,ASGAROTH - The Sleeping Wail: Asgaroth’s astral projection induces complete madness in victims seven days after they encounter it. Only a certain mushroom tea can cure the affliction before it takes its toll.
86,CARCER - Demon Lord of Brittle Bones: Those caught in Carcer’s gaze are either pertirifed or crippled as their bones turn to dust.
87,"VAMJIR - The King of the Stars: Once every century, Vamjir awakens. Everytime, he attempts to extinguish the stars and use their power to become a god."
88,"CHRYSERTUS - The Demonic Beast of Silence: Chrysertus is an intimidating demon that takes the form of a wretched beast. Anything within a 10-foot radius of it can no longer emit sound, until they leave the area."
89,"DEKATRES - Demon Lord of Desmotis: Dekatres is the keeper of the artifact Desmotis, a powerful sword that can sever the boundaries between worlds and open rifts straight into the material plane."
90,"IROHANA - The Benevolent Queen: Irohana appears as a travelling healer, but while she heals people, she also curses them to slowly turn into demons."
91,"RAR'GAMAN - The Chained Demon: A demon covered in writhing chains that keep him pinned to the underworld, Rar’gaman seeks to retrieve 100 artifacts that were taken from him when he was imprisoned . To do this, he uses his disciples, the Chain Hunters, to find the artifacts on the Overworld. The Chain Hunters are easily identified by the chain tattoo that is wrapped around their dominant arm; and they are also identified by their eyes, which burn with an ember glow. If one of the Chain Hunters finds the owner of one of the 100 artifacts, the chain tattoo leaps from their arm and latches onto the victim, allowing Rar'gaman to pull them into his underworld lair, where he tortures them for eternity."
92,"VALPULA - The Gear Demon: Valpula is obsessed with gears and clockwork. His ultimate goal is to find a way to become Primus, the God of the Outer Plane Mechanus."
93,"K’YODAR - Demon Lord of Song: Ethereally beautiful at first glance, many hauntingly beautiful songs emanate from K’yodar’s presence. However, closer examination reveals the source of the songs: a multitude of singing mouths all over her body. The tunes and words of the songs are incomprehensible and impossible to discern. They can only be identified as a jumble of rhythms and syllables with seemingly no meaning. Similar to a siren, when the unaware draw too close, either to look more closely at K'yodar or to listen to her songs, she devours their souls. For every soul she devours, she grows a little larger, and an additional mouth appears somewhere on her body."
94,"PITLORD KOPHIST - The Usurper: A former gladiator in one of the infernal plane’s many fighting rings, Kophist’s thirst for blood and natural aptitude for combat helped him rise through the ranks and quickly gain favour from the denizens of the Abyss. Kophist’s lord saw him as a threat and attempted to banish Kophist; however, the lord found himself betrayed by his underlings. Kophist keeps the now-nameless demon on display, as his prize."
95,"HAYWOOD: Haywood dooms his victims to eternally fighting his demon cow, Edgar, in his realm, The Hole. Haywood wields a scimitar made of pure, dark steel; and he has a belt of infinite daggers."
96,"ARHKSHORT - Demon Lord of Paper: Arhkshort is obsessed with paper, and he makes his every drawing come to life. He is very small and can usually be found sitting somewhere, drawing on his notebook. If badly drawn, his drawing can still come up - but as a failure."
97,"CALIGO - The Dreaded Mist: Caligo is enigmatic and constantly pursuing chaos and destruction. Whether Caligo is a demon that uses its infernal, red fog - which is large enough to cover a town - as camouflage or whether Caligo is the cloud itself, nobody knows because no one who has seen the inside of the cloud has lived to tell the tale."
98,"THE NAMELESS ONE - Demon Lord of the Mute: Punished for some great blasphemy lost to time, the Nameless One is blue-skinned, emaciated, hunched, and bears stumps where hands and feet should be. The Nameless One’s long, coarse hair veils most of his face, except for the dreadful scar that takes up the place a mouth used to be. Those who venture near to The Nameless One hear muffled and incomprehensible screams echoing all around, and many victims are driven to tear out their own mouths and offer it up to the demon lord in a futile attempt to restore his lost voice."
99,"SOHMBRAW - Keeper of the Lightless Halls; Demon Lord of Dying Lights: Sohmbraw is a monster-shaped darkness that’s seems blacker than shadow. She dwells in the Lightless Halls, which are unknown ruins of a labyrinthine-like castle, where she wanders the endless maze with a predator’s grace - hungry. Those that cross paths with her are quickly swallowed by her umbral maw and drained of whatever life energy sustains them. Many believe Sohmbraw greedily collects this energy as light, somewhere within the expanse of her domain, but the reason why is yet unknown. The most popular belief is that when bathed in the light of the living, wherever this may be, her umbral form is shed to reveal the person she used to be - the former queen of what is now the Lightless Halls."
100,"MALBRIS - He Who Corrupts and Wears White; Demon Lord of Voluntary Moral Failure: Perpetually masquerading as white-clad figures of goodness, purity, or innocence, Malbris is a sinful chameleon that craves watching the righteous fall from grace. Whether appearing as a gentle child, a beautiful maiden, or a heroic knight, Malbris slyly draws good people into evil through clever plots. And once he has pulled them in, he relishes in the life-shattering moment of revelation when a good person sees who they have become. Notably, he never forces or manipulates the victim in any way beyond his natural guile, for he wants the victim to be the cause of their own failure, to have no one else to blame. As such, his machinations are often slow and patient and committed."

d100,Entry

1,A caster teleports 25 ft. to the left of their location. A trail of fire appears from their starting position to their teleported position.
2,The spell fails to take effect... until 1d4 rounds later.
3,"Something Fishy: the caster is left smelling of fish. The target of the spell also smells of fish. If the spell affects an area, the area smells of fish. If the spell produces a projectile the projectile becomes a fish(no change to damage type)."
4,All the players randomly change bodies for 1d4 rounds.
5,"It rains literal cats and dogs for one round, causing 1d4 bludgeon damage to any creature hit by a dog and 1d6 slashing damage to any creature hit by a cat."
6,"Feathers - The caster hair follicle's sprout feathers of one type and in the next round, these fall off, or fly away and a round after, they sprout different feathers. This effect lasts a number of turns = d6+spell level . So the caster was casting Chain Lightning a 6th level spell. 6d6 turns."
7,"A genie offers the caster a Wish, but refuses to grant it and disappears."
8,The caster can see one round into the future.
9,Everyone in a 3d6 foot radius has to make a DC 15 Con save or falls asleep for 1d4 rounds.
10,"2d8 gp fly out of the casters hands. 2d8 of them hit (if the second roll exceeds the first, they all hit), dealing 1d4-1 bludgeoning damage each."
11,The caster and the target both get an intense sense of kinship and refuse to fight each other for 1d4 rounds.
12,"The caster loses containment of his or her magical power, which all goes pouring out to the nearest creature. The caster expends all his or her remaining spell slots and sorcery points, adding all the spell levels together (with each sorcery point counting as 1 level). The target takes 1d6 force damage for each spell level expended this way. If this damage kills the target, the leftover damage continues to the next closest creature, and so on until all damage has been applied."
13,"The spell builds up at the users magical implement, charging. The spell is not cast this turn, but next, dealing double damage to those hit."
14,"A force explodes out in a ring around the caster, knocking everybody back 5 feet (Fort save DC14, range 25ft)"
15,"The caster begins to glow. (As Light spell, no save)"
16,The caster loses control of their bladder. Constitution save DC18 or they urinate on the spot.
17,"The user is driven mad by the spell, causing them to go into a barbarian rage for one minute."
18,Your shadow detaches from you and becomes a shadow (the creature).
19,You flash with golden light that seems to hang in the air around you. Everyone caught in this light (20 foot radius) receives double healing and cannot lie for the next 10 turns (one minute outside combat).
20,The world seems to dim and plants seem to wilt around you. Everybody in a 20 foot radius takes double damage from necrotic damage and take one point of exhaustion on any critical failures for the next 10 turns (one minute outside combat).
21,You feel very attractive... All unsecured objects and creatures in a 100 ft radius moves towards you by 5 feet.
22,"You feel like you really need to sneeze. Make a constitution saving throw with a DC of 10+your spell casting modifier. On a failure, you sneeze, and involuntarily cast prismatic spray (without consuming a spell slot) in the direction you are facing. On a successful save, you sneeze normally, without any ill effects."
23,The world seems to slow to a crawl around you. You get to take 1 additional action.
24,The smell of cinnamon fills the area in a 30-foot radius around the caster.
25,"A small songbird pops into existence in mid-flight 10 feet above the caster. Roll a d20. On a 1, the bird poops and it lands on the caster. On a 20, the bird poops and it lands on the target of the spell."
26,The caster develops severe claustrophobia for 1d4 hours.
27,"A sinkhole, 20 feet deep and 10 feet in diameter, appears at a random location within 100 feet of the caster."
28,"The caster gets the hiccups, which last for 1d6 minutes."
29,Any non-magical pouches or containers on the caster’s person tear open and spill their contents onto the ground.
30,"Around the caster spawns 10 frogs, all of them are passive."
31,"Around the caster spawns 10 rats, all of them hostile."
32,A lit birthday candle appears before the caster. In front of the candle is a note. The note reads “blow the candle out to make a wish.
33,A tiny elemental of the caster’s choice appears as a familiar.
34,"Fog seeps up from the ground, obscuring everything within a 20' radius of the target, or caster, for 1d4 rounds."
35,The next person the caster physically touches takes 1d6 lightning damage.
36,The caster grows an extra finger on one of their hands. A remove curse spell or a successful DC20 medicine check can remove the finger.
37,The spell is unexpectedly loud and everyone within 10 feet of you (including you) takes 1d6 thunder damage and the spell can be heard 600 feet away.
38,The casters eyes catch on fire and their hands are covered in ice crystals. Any unarmed attack deals an additional 1d4 cold damage for 1d4 rounds.
39,Caster's race changes every day for the next week.
40,"Both caster must make a DC 15 Wis save. On failure, they drop whatever they are holding."
41,"Caster knows a new language, chosen by the DM."
42,Any loose objects move 10ft closer to caster.
43,Caster's hair changes color.
44,"After casting the spell, the caster hears strange whispers in an unknown language for 1d20 minutes. Occasionally the whispers seem to go quiet, as though they know someone is listening."
45,"After 1d4 rounds of casting the spell, a bear intent on violence towards the party, and with knowledge of their whereabouts, is summoned 200 feet away."
46,Five Violet Fungus sprout up from the ground and begin attacking the party when the spell is cast.
47,"A Couatl, sensing a spell being cast, swoops within 10 feet of the party's heads, and flies away after examining the magic cast."
48,"The caster experienced extreme discomfort in their stomach for 1d4 turns before finally releasing a monstrous belch for another 1d4 turns. This belch functions as per the description of the spell Gust of Wind, with the direction of the wind being whichever direction the caster is facing."
49,"For the next 24 hours, the caster’s nose grows outwards by 1 inch every time they knowingly tell a lie. The nose returns to it’s previous size once the duration is up."
50,"For the next hour, the caster bursts into a fit of evil, maniacal laughter every time they open their mouth. Each time they do so, they must make a DC 13 Wisdom saving throw or be compelled to pull a minor prank of some kind. The nature of the prank is at the player’s discretion, so long as it is suitably mischevious and harmless."
51,"Every writing in a 10-foot radius of the caster immediately transforms into incredibly petty criticism of the caster. If the caster reads any of it, they must make a DC 10 Wisdom saving throw or believe whatever minor putdown the writing describes."
52,"A chorus of ethereal voices congratulate the caster on casting the spell and compliment the quality of both the casting and the spell itself. Anytime the caster uses magic within an hour of the casting of the original spell, they are met with the murmured approval and commentary of the voices."
53,You immediately grow a bunch of body hair that falls off after a day.
54,"Instead of the fireball you were expecting, you begin summoning countless cabbages, pouring out in a cone in front of you."
55,Instead of doing any damage the full points of damage would heal the person instead.
56,"Instead of the cone of ice you wanted, a disgruntled 6 inch pixie appears, flies up to you, punches you in the forehead, sprinkles you with a dust that makes you sneeze violently, and then vanishes in a puff of neon pink and orange glitter."
57,"The somatic components for the song are replaced with the theme song to friends, and the hand-gestures are the clapping."
58,They grow rabbit ears that give them advantage on all perception rolls for 1 hour.
59,The caster's eyes glow and they're able to see in the dark but the glow allows everything in the darkness to see them.
60,The cast vomits up a huge slug after casting the spell.
61,"The caster's arms disappear and are replaced with mist-limbs. They can only lift up to ten pounds but can fit under doors, open non-magical locks, and even cool hot metals. Lasts for 1d10 minutes."
62,"The target for the spell becomes immobilized for 1 round, and until they succeed in a con save (DC 10)."
63,"The target is effect by the same spell twice. The caster still uses one spell slot. If the first casting is within the caster's control (ploy morph, alter self), the second effect is totally random."
64,The caster spits glitter when he talks. It gets everywhere. The effect ends after 1 minute but the glitter never goes away.
65,The first person who says the casters name then has total mental control over them for 1d4 rounds.
66,Target turns into a marble figurine of itself. When the figurine is activated (by throwing it into an unoccupied space) it transforms back into its living form and is hostile towards all creatures.
67,"Any keratin on the caster's body (hair, nails, feathers, some skin, horns, hooves, etc...) turn a vibrant hue."
68,The caster spontaneously combusts.
69,The caster is launched ten feet into the air and falls back down.
70,Caster turns into massive oak tree.
71,"All the PCs and NPCs including monsters change places, rotate places 1d4 spots clockwise"
72,"The caster's hair grows very rapidly, if male, so does the beard. It grows to about 2meters length, and turns purple, green or blue."
73,"Bubbles sprout from the casters mouth every time he exales, lasts 1 hour."
74,"Next book the caster reads, has him/her as protagonist"
75,1d8 medium sized purple tentacles rise from the ground. They are semi-sentinel and not aligned to caster nor foe. They attempt to grapple anything within range (DC 14)
76,Irregardless of the amount of time that passes in game the caster of this spell can see and hear all that happens in the real world surrounding the player of said character for the next 1d6 minutes per level of spell cast.
77,"The caster and target switch classes but retain their respective level, if the target does not have a class then the caster switches classes with the closest humanoid with one."
78,"In the next 1d6 hours the caster grows 1d6 feet, but gains no mass, so a halfling would become an extremely tall thin creature. No negative effects purely cosmetic, can be reversed with remove curse."
79,The casters eyes and veins glow in the dark for 1d6 days.
80,"A weapon within 30 feet of caster becomes sentient, it's always grumbling about being dirty and grants disadvantage to the user if they don't spend an hour a day cleaning it."
81,The caster rolls 1d2. 1 = the age 1d10 years. 2 = they lose 1d10 years.
82,Any object or being that the caster touches for 1d10 rounds ( 1 minute out of combat) turns to leaves for 1d10 minutes.
83,"If the caster is using a spell casting focus, it grows 100 times heavier for one minute."
84,"The casters eyes flash with a strange color. To the caster, everybody's skin and muscles are transparent, revealing their organs. This lasts for 1 minute."
85,Magical silence falls in a 50 ft radius that lasts for 10 minutes.
86,All noises the caster makes for the next minute are x100 times louder.
87,The next piece of metal the caster touches turns to gold.
88,All water in a 50 ft radius evaporates instantly.
89,"A small lead figure of the caster in the exact pose they were in appears in mid air and falls to the ground. Despite being so small, it weighs exactly as much as the caster."
90,The caster suddenly witnesses a memory from one of their ancestors.
91,"The casters hair disappears, reappearing 1d6 days later, washed, braided and decorated with flowers."
92,"Instead of the effect you were intending, there is a burst of silent and illusionary fireworks in a 100 foot radius around you, and all creatures affected by them are stunned until their next turn."
93,"Instead of the intended effect, 10d10 trees in the area grow mouths, and begin singing for 1d8 rounds. If the original spell was supposed to be a spell of healing, the song is a rousing chorus that washes away fatigue and ends any emotional (fear, charm, etc.) effect that is currently afflicting any that hear it. If the original spell was supposed to be an attack spell, the song is an irresistible tune that catches up all that hear it into singing it with the trees, and all the attitudes of the combatants is changed to neutral towards each other when the song ends. If the spell was supposed to be anything else, the song is a soothing song that makes the listeners sleepy, making it hard to take reactionary attacks until the song ends."
94,"In front of the caster a portal, no larger than a fist, opens to the realm of infinite (insert desired liquid here). That liquid begins to pour out uncontrollably for 1 rnd / caster level."
95,The caster casts grease centered on self.
96,The caster is trapped in a giant glass ball. Must be broken to be freed.
97,The caster sees everyone as a decaying corpse for 24h.
98,The caster becomes a potted plant until start of next turn.
99,The caster has max damage on the spell they were casting.
100,The caster gains 50 lbs.

d100,Entry

1,The cult member drops ceremonial robes that were in his backpack. This would make for a great disguise for the character that found it. What they don't know is that this robe is worn by the human sacrificer.
2,Three tomes of knowledge about the cult. Each one depicts their rituals and the meanings behind them.
3,A “holy” book holding stories about whoever or whatever the cult praises.
4,A poisoned dagger with the name of a deity on it.
5,A cursed amulet that randomly spawns in a very hostile rat.
6,A step by step guide on sacrifices.
7,A very detailed drawing of some unholy deity destroying the world.
8,A blood hawk feather. There’s dried blood on the tip.
9,A map with the location of a cult shrine.
10,"A dagger engraved with runes, detailing some aspect of the cult."
11,"A colored gem. If you find three of them, they can be combined in a special apparatus in one of the cultist's bases, to summon an appropriate monster."
12,"A tiny statue, depicting whoever the cult worships."
13,"A human organ, presumably to be used in a ritual."
14,The bleached skull of a small animal. A semiprecious gem is embedded between the skull’s eye sockets.
15,"A novel. It’s a fun, light story by a quite popular author. The cult uses it as the key to a book cipher for their secret communications."
16,A pouch of dragon scales bloodied by fresh meat.
17,A barber's kit (for keeping that scalp clean).
18,A scroll of pass-phrases for secret meetings. Dates/locations/map optional.
19,"A tattoo that falls off a dead person, and can be picked up and re-applied. It depicts the cult symbols, elemental predilection, or ancient writing."
20,A silent horned frog with no eyes (Reaching into the frog's mouth will revealed it to be a bag of holding filled with d100 loot from a cult member).
21,"A carven, hollow horn of an unknown animal, engraved with scenes of whatever the cult venerates. Blowing produces a sound like a human shriek."
22,A set of candles commonly used as part of various fell rituals.
23,"A small statuette depicting whatever the cult worships. When exposed to sunlight, it begins screaming until it is covered again."
24,A note containing the names of all party members with (LOCATION KNOWN) next to each name.
25,A bag containing the livers of several different species.
26,The talon of a phoenix.
27,The tongue of a Kenku.
28,"The crumpled, tear-stained note of a loved one, wishing the cultist farewell and asking them to forget about them. The note pleads with the cultist not to linger on the past, and instead move towards a brighter future of honesty in honor of their memory. The message ends with the writer wishing the cultist all the happiness in the world and a reminder that the writer will always love them."
29,"A religious symbol from an opposing religion, thoroughly hidden away on the cultist’s body."
30,"A grocery list with the ingredients for corned beef written on it. Scrawled down at the bottom is the secret ingredient the cultist uses to make his dish extra special, written in a code of the cultist’s own design. A successful DC 16 Intelligence check decodes the scribbling and reveals the secret ingredient to be wood shavings from the local tavern."
31,A pewter ring with gold sigils inlaid in it putting the ring on causes it to turn invisible.
32,"A false eye made of obsidian, the eye unscrews to reveal a secret compartment with small a scroll inside."
33,A folded up piece of parchment with a childs drawing of a demon.
34,A bunch of half melted candles tied together.
35,"A twine necklace with a small jar on the end of it, the jar holds a small pickeled snake."
36,"A small widdled human skull with a pair of small horns, if you ask the skull a yes or no question it will glow red or green. The colors it glows is totally unrelated to the question."
37,"A coin with an evil sigil on one side and the gead of a demon on the other, flipping it causes the holder to hear a deep evil laugh."
38,A mirror that reflects everyone as tieflings.
39,A worn romance novel about a female cultist and a demon.
40,Teeth. Hundreds and hundreds of teeth in a cloth bag.
41,A picture of the cult member's four years old daughter.
42,"An engraved silver heart-shaped locket. Inside is a tiny portait of you, as the opposite sex."
43,"A rent book, for a hostel in a suspect part of town."
44,Sketches of a friendly NPC.
45,"A feather duster, polish and a rag. (Temples to dark gods don’t clean themselves!)"
46,Menthol Cream (piles of rotting corpses and pools of blood smell ... a lot)
47,"A relatively large amulet with small holes around its edge and a button in the centre. If depressed, hallucinogenic spores are released."
48,"A pouch of very small bones that can be fitted together to form a strange, highly complex and obviously magical occult symbol."
49,A small paper detailing a recent meeting over the pension fund created from the sale of sacrificed victims' belongings.
50,A stack of pamphlets vaguely detailing the perks of joining their cult.
51,A crumpled up photo torn in a few pieces depicting a young man and small child.
52,"A tiny sundial and a note written in blood saying ""don't be late again"". Investigating the cultist will reveal a missing finger."
53,A fresh vial of humanoid blood.
54,An iron locket with a charcoal sketch of their deity slashed through.
55,"A book on the basics of prestidigation, and several unused candles."
56,"A child's toy, a small hand carved horse with wheels."
57,A deed for a home in town signed over to the cultist.
58,"A journal, with graphic details of what vile deeds the cultist wants to do to his/her former boss, co-workers, neighbors, all in the name of the diety they worship and how satisfying it shall be to fulfill this need for violence and bloodlust."
59,Several sticks of incense designed to disguise the smell of rotting flesh.
60,"A miniature doll depicting this same cultist, kept inside a sealed black bag. Members of this cult believe their dolls represent their souls."
61,"Black leather gloves, slightly damp with some unknown liquid."
62,A long (40') strip of spiked leather designed to be wound tightly around the body from ankle to neck — with the spikes pressing into the flesh — for self-mortification.
63,A hair shirt/cilice/sackcloth.
64,"A worn, well-used pillow to sit upon during meditation."
65,"A padma seat, used for sitting in lotus position for long periods."
66,"A small glass globe, intended as a meditation focus."
67,"A featureless mask/hood -- basically a cloth sleeve over the entire head -- with no eye, ear, or mouth holes."
68,"Several tiny, palm-sized books painstakingly inscribed with minute prayers and symbols of the cult."
69,"Hand-woven/carved trinkets, flowers, baked goods, or other items meant to be sold on the streets as a fundraiser for the cult."
70,"A mortar and pestle with bone fragments in it. When used to make healing potions, they can be made twice as fast, but the potion has a 25% chance to do damage instead of healing equal to the potions strength."
71,A letter about how the cultist doesn't fit in and regrets joining.
72,Alchemy ingredients to make a large dose of weak poison.
73,Two potions of firebreath.
74,A perfectly round glass disk that fits easily in the palm of a hand. It cannot be scratched.
75,A half written manifesto for a splinter sect of the cult.
76,"A blank journal used to press flowers, it contains 1d4 flowers."
77,"Guide to the closest large city detailing merchants, taverns, inns, etc..."
78,A journal. When studied for an hour and after a successful Investigation check reveals names of cult contacts and sympathizers.
79,An ivory pipe and leather pouch of tobacco.
80,"A half written scroll for a random 1st (or other appropriate) level spell. Needs to be finished before it's functional, but no gold pat is associated with writing the scroll."
81,A hobbyist book and set of tinkerer's tools.
82,1d4 candles and a prayer book to whatever the cult worships.
83,Ceremonial drinking horn.
84,Rabbit pelt knife sheath and sacrificial dagger.
85,Dragonborn skin covered tome (spell book).
86,Silver signet ring and larger seal stamp of the cult.
87,"Pair of boots with an odd ""swoosh"" carved into it. Cyanide pills optional."
88,A set of business cards promoting the cult.
89,Cult of X for Dummies book.
90,A letter from a family member begging the addressed recipient to come home.
91,A bone dagger with unicorn horn handle and an eye encased in amber as a pommel.
92,A traditional curved dagger with barbs on the end.
93,A cursed amulet that can commune with the dead.
94,A detailed guide on kidnapping.
95,A very detailed drawing of the inside of a local manor.
96,An aarakocra feather.
97,"A cheese sandwich, wrapped in cloth, with two bites taken out of it."
98,A folded piece of parchment with an unflattering caricature of the cult's leader drawn on it.
99,"A small, encoded notebook which, if deciphered, shows the cult member was actually a spy working for the local government. The notebook contains information on the cult's goals, activities, and membership."
100,"Food: hardtack and moldy cheese for destitute low ranks, wine and a small delicacy for higher rank."

d100,Entry

1,"I once saw Gornak the Brave pick up the tavern and spin it around on the tip of his finger! When he set it back down and walked inside, he hadn't even spilled his beer."
2,"You ever heard of the man named miryks? He was the only man to have ever bedded a dragon, and then he bedded three more!"
3,"you ever hear of Ogrub the ogre? It's said that a magical artifact gave him a moral compass and he helped save a whole village, kept them all from drowning during the dam break, then he settled down as a farmer there for awhile. No one knows what happened to him after that."
4,"You ever heard of Fizziks the wealthiest goblin to ever live? It's said that he made his fortune following adventurers around and sneaking into the dungeons after they come back out, claiming anything valuable left behind. He supposedly has a knack for finding hidden doors and picking locks, and would find all kind of stuff stashed away that was missed."
5,"Ever heard about the dwarf-eating forest? I heard that the dwarves cut and chopped some roots under that region, not realizing it was still a live tree, and now any dwarf who happens in that forest is never seen again."
6,They say Marcol Giantsteppe built the mountains out of dragon bones to protect our little town.
7,"The Legend(s) of Kiven, Stupidest Man in All the Land. Once walked out of an inn and was unable to find his way back... Even from within sight of the inn itself. He drank an entire bottle of ink and promptly vomited. Did it again the next day. Learned the Shocking Grasp cantrip... and tested it on himself. He stole a Sending Stone from a fellow adventurer, and tried to sell it back to him. He frequently confuses cats for dogs, and vice versa."
8,"Have you heard the tail of Uthall Twice-Orphaned Thunukalathi? He was a Goliath who beat a storm giant in a wrestling match, and then proceeded to beat an empyrean in a body building contest."
9,"A long time ago, there was a gnoll woman named Cisathaka. She rejected her demonic heritage and entered an halfling beauty pageant, and won. She donated all the prize money to a struggling orphanage in (insert city name from the setting here)."
10,Ever heard of grüngle the filthy? He stunk so much that he once caused a rust monster to dissolve with a single breath.
11,"Just read the book “Praise the Great Beholder!”. It’s about Chezdrur the beholder, a flawless character who ends up easily killing the tarrasque in a great battle. It was written by a cult who worships Chezdrur, who is real but hasn’t even seen the tarrasque from afar."
12,"One winter it was so cold that the dawn froze solid. The sun normally rose between two mountains, but the ice had built up so much that it stuck firmly in place. The first sunbeams of the day had frozen up like golden icicles. A ranger named Dav Oket was coming home from a successful night hunting with a fresh owlbear. Seeing the sun frozen in place, and being a smart man, Dav knew he had to do something quickly or the world would plunge into chaos. He swiftly sprinted up the frozen sunbeams and used the heat of the owlbear carcass to melt the ice. Dav gave the sun a kick to dislodge it, lit his pipe on the sun, and slid down the sunbeams with the owlbear right to his front door. He even kept a bit of the sunrise in his pocket to remember the occasion."
13,"If you travel to Owlbear Lake on a quiet day, you might just catch a glimpse of The Monster. It looks like a great brown snake 90 feet long, with two huge ears coming out the sides of its head and jaws large enough to swallow a man in one gulp! Some say it has hundreds of small legs that make it kind of skitter across the ground, but it can swim faster than a horse can gallop. Sometimes it sneaks up on swimmers, and if it's not hungry it just pulls them under and lets them go. Of course old Dav Oket heard about this monster and bet his friends that he could take it on. After days of stalking, Dav finally had a shot with his bow. He was a crack shot, but not an arrow found its mark. The Monster scuttled forward and ate Dav's bow! So the ranger wrapped his arms around the beast and wrestled with it. The fight was so great, so colossal, that it stirred up a storm over the lake. Finally, Dav threw the Monster over his shoulder, and it sailed right over the mountain. To this day, you can cross the lake in safety if you call out, 'Old Dav's a-coming!' and the Monster swims away to the bottom of the lake."
14,Lady of Pain! The lady who had so many piercings and self inflicted curses she rattled and smoked with every movement.
15,"Have you heard the story of the great blind sorcerer? Prince of an elven kingdom, he killed three gods as a child and that was before he learned magic!"
16,"You haven't heard of Kim the Great and his stories? It is said that at the age of 9 he had slain a dragon alone to protect the people of his land, with his bare hands, using no magic. Out Great Leader Kim truly is a gift from the gods"
17,"Ebrius 'the drunk' once drank the entire ocean after his ale fell in it. Impressed by his resolution the gods proclaimed him the 'Lord of the drunkards'. It's true, you can ask him yourself, he's probably in the tavern right now. (Just has a godlike bluff, advantage if the person he's talking to is drunk too)."
18,"Centuries ago, there was a dark mage, Daffy, the Implacable. He summoned another moon, and named it Majorus. It was going to fall on the world, and destroy all of it, but it turned out the 'moon' was just too close, making it seem big. So, a group of adventurers threw fireballs at it, and Majorus burned down. Daffy was never seen again."
19,"There once was a boy, called Brightus. It's said he made a heavier-than-air machine, that could fly without magic. He rode what was called 'The Airplane' out of a cliff, as a crowd watched him fly it into the unknown. Legend says Brightus will one day return, giving flying machines to everyone."
20,"It's said the Great King (intentionally vague) had a younger brother, who wanted to take the crown at all costs. So, he made deals with several demons, and got enough power to kill everyone but his brother in the kingdom, replace them with minions, and get rid of all the evidence. Legend has it the original King was magically paralyzed and made invisible before all that happened, and had to watch as his brother destroyed everything and took his identity."
21,"There once was a deaf woman with a ridiculous name. So ridiculous, in fact, that whoever heard it laughed to death. She caused death everywhere he went, and eventually got her hearing deficiency cured by an also deaf cleric. So, she heard her name, and laughed to death."
22,"Ever hear the tale of Rutmod the Sunderer? Legend says Rutmod won two dozen rounds of gladiatorial combat, and severed the arms of every single combatant that fought that day. The strangest part is, he started with his own!"
23,"Legend tells of a man by the name of Throckmorton, who would only traverse the land on a board with several small wheels attached to it. He would flip this board around in a dizzying display of finesse, and could propel himself faster than any sprinter. No man or beast could touch him. One day, Throckmorton grew bored of this plane, and propelled off of a ramp upwards into the heavens themselves, where he performs his tricks to this day."
24,"Before the ancients took hold in the land there was a legend that defied the rules of logic. Its said that in The Ethereal Highlands there lived a young lady named Megaera. Rumor has it that she was raised by clan of giants who had never seen a human before. One day, Megaera wondered too far away from the giants encampment, and entered the dark forest. Megaera sent several days lost in the woods afraid and starving. There was dragon larking in the shadows then suddenly it flow out of the darkness penning Megaera to the ground. Hopelessness dawned on Megaera as the dragon opened its jaws ready for a fest. The dragon's piercing teeth bit into Megaera as she was eaten alive, screams began to go numb the fur down she went into its stomach. Death was assured for Megaera. Then something happened, the dragon began to roar violently in pain. Megaera was more than a mere mortal, she was the offspring of Eztia, Goddess Of Destiny. Megaera short ripped the dragon a part from the inside out, however, she left the wings intact so she could meld with them in order to fly into the heavens."
25,Have you heard the tale of Nublig the goblin chronomancer? Long story short he was his own grandfather.
26,"Long ago there was an Elf and a Dwarf who competed at everything to see who was better. One day they asked a Druid to turn them both into trees to see who was the better tree and the Druid obliged. The Elf became a tall elegant oak and the Dwarf became a tiny fir tree, however, since neither could speak to request to be changed back they became stuck that way. They propagated and now there are short sturdy pine trees all over the Dwarf mountains and tall oaks throughout the Elven kingdoms."
27,The first globe map was created when a Beholder flew up enough to see the entire world and then lost his eye on the way down.
28,"There was once a love so strong between two people that if you stood between them one side of you would feel ice, and the other straight fire."
29,"The giant threw the rock with such strength that the rock made a roundabout and hit him in the back killing him. When his friend came to see what left a big hole in the giants head, he too got a stone blowing his head up."
30,The tribes of kzechem sacrifice their people at the same spot. This has been a tradition for thousands of years.
31,Tarrasques are so big that their white blood cells fell of and became coconuts. Their red blood cells then became strawberries.
32,"Thrain was so strong already at birth that when a deadly plague came to kill him and his family, he tore apart the evil spirit with his little baby hands. Saving his kingdom."
33,"And then the Goliath swung his great sword at the king's head. He cleaved with such a fierce blow the head went flying. It flew for miles, falling into a rabbit hole. That's we came up with golf."
34,"According to eyewitnesses the king of the elves was seen on a shield, going downwards on a slope filled with dead bodies, He then turned with his beautiful archery skills the hill/mountain into a bloodied one. That's why this is called blood slope/blood mountain."
35,"(Here lies) Karrugan the Conqueror, born a slave, freed his people and conquered all the savage land, killing all the slaver regents and let every slave free, and formed an invincible nomad order made of free slaves. Then he set sail to conquer our land, with an invincible fleet. He was then killed by the first arrow shot in the conflict by mistake by a local farmer conscripted in the first meat shield army to give time to the other armies to regroup. One weeks later all the surviving men and women from the Karrugan Army, were made slave again."
36,"Have you heard of Billy Punchyface, the ratfolk who once knocked out an orc twice his size? Granted, that wasn't a very big orc, but still!"
37,Ever heard of captain goldline? This pirate had such an incredible voice that he could attract mermaids. He sailed the seas and used his gift to gather mermaids. The mermaids attracted other sailors and he raided them. He build the biggest fortune under all pirates ever and controlled the seas with his fleet. However he caught a rare sexual disease. They call it the mermaids revenge. As a result he grew gills and choked to death.
38,"Ever heard of archmage Woopios? He faced the greatest and biggest orc warrior in history in the great war. Well this old guy messed up some words and instead of shrinking the orc he grew multiple times is size. Well, guess how that ended for him and the human army. I can tell you that: It wasn't pretty."
39,Ever heard of Father jack? Well this handsome dude used to get every girl into bed he wanted since his beard started to grow. You maybe ask why they call him Father? Better pose that question to his 122 sons and 99 daughters.
40,"Ever heard of Sebastian Blowa? His guy searched for the magical unicorn all his life. As everyone knows if you find it, the unicorn will grant you a wish. He wanted to become king of the realm and unite all kingdoms. He finally found the unicorn after 80 years of search. The senile old Sebastian then said out of relief: ' i wish you would be easier to find..'. Well wish grated. Next guy became king the next day causing the biggest war in history."
41,"Ever heard of the head of Froja? Well there once was a wizard called Froja who got sentenced to death for using black magic. He managed to break free and sneak into the library of the mage academy. He found a spell in the forbidden books which grants eternal life. After he casted the spell he went back to the Major of the city and demanded his freedom. They refused. Put him in jail and chopped of his head next day. Well, he's still alive today. They keep his head in the Academy as a training object for young students."
42,Ever heard of Groolp the kuo toa that actually saw Blibdoolpoolp with his very eyes? He told me so himself!
43,"Haven’t you heard about Dwaine the stone giant that grew so strong that he won in a fight against 10,000 manes, 10 maralith, 5 balor, and Orcus himself?!"
44,"There once was a great city where all of the world's strongest and most fantastic mages gathered to perform amazing works of magic. One day, a dark wizard came and attempted to seize the city for his own. The wards around the city activated, trying to drive him out, but their magics conflicted and the entire city turned into the great forest."
45,"Have you heard of the Legendary Hero Chef? It goes that this youth left his island home and fought not to slay monsters, but to taste them. Goblin stew, kobold fricasee, ooze puddings, you name it, he tasted it. He was last seen venturing into the Forbidden Peaks, seeking to have his last meal: Dragon Tail Roast."
46,"They say there's this... 'Diner in the Middle of Nowhere'. A solitary door pops up, out of thin air, in front of weary travelers. Those who enter find themselves in this dining hall where strangely dressed people sit on metal stools and leather seats, served by a woman gliding on wheeled shoes. They serve 'panned cakes' and 'burg-hers'. When you finally exit the establishment, you end up leagues away from where you first entered it!"
47,"There used to be a wizard so skilled in divination magic that she never bothered having a conversation, because she already knew how it was going to end."
48,There once was a transmutation wizard so prolific that eventually any gold coming from this kingdom was treated as scrap metal.
49,There once was a druid who loved nature so much that all the trees in all the forests of the world banded together to issue a restraining order.
50,"Tales tell of an illusion wizard so powerful that when a rival kingdom sent an army to attack his homeland, he disguised the stars they used to navigate so that they ended up destroying their own capital."
51,"Have you heard of a hunter named Caspar the unlucky? First he lost his hand to a wolf, came home bleeding only to find his wife bedding his cousin. He supposedly drew his dagger and challenged his cousin to a duel, where he slipped on his own blood and plunged into his own dagger. But wait, there is even more. His cousin and the wife pitied him and nursed him back to health, just to run away together. The now lonely unfortunate hunter grew tired of the gods, testing his faith like that and started to curse at them non stop. A wandering priest heard his slandering tirade and warned Caspar not to take the gods lightly. Caspar didn't want to hear and the same night during a storm, his house caught on fire. Caspar, in a furious rage, ran out and drew his dagger, pointed it towards the heavens and shouted blasphemous curses at the gods who had forsaken him, only to get hit by a bolt of lightning. Barely alive, he then crawled to a neighbors house and collapsed. As he woke up and told the neighbor his tale of misfortune and started to swear at the gods again. The neighbor brought him some stew, again warning him not to slander the gods, and left him to cool down while fetching some firewood. When the neighbor returned, he saw Caspar slumped over his chair, head down in the stew, dead. He had choked on a piece of meat."
52,"They say there's a cult of thespians who meet in secrecy to perform the million year play. It is said they wear golden robes and the script is in an ancient, forgotten tongue spoken by the first gods. Any who watch the play become a part of it forever, and some believe that if the play reaches its conclusion, the world will end."
53,"The old drunk who sits on the docks claims a crab the size of a mountain tore the earth from the bottom of the ocean, and now the city rests on its back. He says that's why no foreign ships reach these shores, and why those earthquakes keep happening."
54,"Somewhere out in the sea there is an ancient ship of the first captain, whose vessel is made of bone and whose hulls are filled with the treasured gifts of a hundred sea gods. Men who explore every shore will meet him on their journeys, and become members of his crew. That's why sometimes great admirals and pirates disappear at sea."
55,If you lose a fight to gnome you become one. There was just one in the beginning but he was a scrappy little guy.
56,"Have you guys heard of the lady of the lake? Campers beware! Every night, a lady, very slowly, so delicately, raises herself out of (local swampland), in fact, she takes so much care that the water is entirely undisturbed from it's nightly slumber, the ethereal being proceeds to torment the dreams of the living, hunting the dreamers within their own minds."
57,"I heard that a eccentric pottery maker from the south would hide jewels in each pot he made so he could smuggle them out of the country and collect them later. So you gotta break any you can find, perhaps your fortune be waiting inside."
58,The first elven king was so powerful and grew to be so old that his first name alone had 20 apostrophes in it.
59,"There was once an undead that went by the name Super Grave Osborn and he would tight rope walk great canyons, launch himself off of bridges, and one time he even fired himself from a trebuchet. He was dead so it didn't really hurt, but it was impressive to watch none the less."
60,"It is said that the king who rules this land was murdered by his son who was possessed by a demon. When the king shows himself in public, they say it's just a shapeshifter. The authorities still deny anything ever happened to this day."
61,"Out side of town, deep in the woods, there is a great stone statue of a man in full armor and weaponry. 'Twas built centuries ago in honor of the first King of the land, who died fighting the great heathen armies from the north at that very spot. Though he died, he slew many of the horde, forcing them back from out lands. So great was his victory that the barbarians never dared return in all the last hundred years. It is said that if they do return, that statue will come to life and lead our armies to victory again. Course the new King doesn't like that story, he says that he will lead the armies to victory and won't give no stone monster his crown, but that's a matter between kings, stone or not."
62,"There is a gnarled tree, deep in the woods, that looks almost like a person, and is said to be a person cursed long ago."
63,"The biggest house I ever saw was in a snail's shell. There was an enchantment made by a drunken fairy on the shell, so that it could contain his hopes and dreams, and when you looked into the shell you could see a house that made a complete ring around a valley, all of the surrounding peaks had parts of this house built over them. And I swear it wasn't snail venom making me hallucinate."
64,"You see that frail old man over there? Last year, he used to look just like you. That was, until he abused the spell Disguise Self! He cast it so flippantly, using it to deceive everyone in town until one day, it stuck! Now he walks around town all day, trying to avoid mirrors and shiny objects that would remind him of his terrible mistake."
65,"Make sure you don't hurt or kill a mockingbird in this area! The wood elves of the land so love the sound of the mockingbird that they all learn druidic magic and become mockingbirds for much of the day, so be careful what you say around them!"
66,Tieflings don't really have demon blood at all- they all come from a farmer's daughter who was so amorous she took to her father's goats!
67,"The old woman in that house is really a well-made flesh golem! She is always collecting parts to fix herself, so don't go near her house alone!"
68,"You see the old ruins of a castle over there? It's actually the Baron's castle, brought by terrible magic from the future! If you make changes to the Baron's castle, it changes the ruins too!"
69,"It isn't just mice eating the grain in the silos. Those halflings in the caravan outside the city? They have a city of tiny people in one of the wagons, each person no taller than my palm. These people have trained the mice like horses and can open any lock!"
70,"You see that tower over there? Well, there are seven sisters, princesses, locked in eternal sleep at the top of the tower. If a man fights his way to them using only his fists, he can wake them up and then he'd have his pick of 'em!"
71,"You know how them wizards cast spells? They say it's book learning, but it ain't- knowing or not, they are making a pact with devils, and it's their families that pay the price. Ain't no wizards with happy families."
72,"You know why the wind wails through the canyon there? No? It's because some of those Air Genasi folk were trapped by a wizard in them stones. They are the wind's children, and the wind is looking for them. If someone were to end the wizard's spell, the wind would help them their whole lives."
73,"Goblins and gnomes- they are really the same race. Gnomes don't want you to know it, but goblins are just dirty, angry gnomes. If you could clean up a goblin and get it to look you in the eye, you can turn it back into a gnome by making it sneeze three times."
74,"The Queen doesn't really love the King. They are always smiling at each other, right? Well, the King is actually a powerful enchanter who is making her love him. It is why he's so popular- but you didn't hear it from me!"
75,"Beware of the Merminotaurs! They will sink ships without warning and eat their captives. Some folk will tell thee there's no such beast, but I've seen 'em! Half-shark, Half Minotaur, they are, and terribly deadly!"
76,The local smokeweed- monsters hate it. Hate the smell of it. Buy a bunch and throw it on your campfire at night and you'll sleep safe.
77,"Elves aren't actually people- they are really intelligent plants. If you cut one it bleeds sap, not blood."
78,"Necromancy isn't just what magicians do. There's a terrible curse on this land from one of the gods, and it makes it so every body that isn't blessed with the proper last rites rises sooner or later. Some of them don't know they are dead."
79,"If you meet a beautiful blonde woman on the road, take care- she is likely a cow maiden who will steal your soul."
80,"If kenku can steal enough, they can trade their treasures and regain their wings."
81,"Orcs don't reproduce the way we do- they are like worms, and if you cut one in half it'll slowly grow into 2 new orcs. Cutting their hearts out or burning the bodies is the only way to stop it."
82,You know why Dwarves have such funny last names? It's because their true clan names was stolen by a powerful wizard and hidden deep underground somewheres. That is what they are looking for down there.
83,Most dwarves have no toes.
84,"Don't ever sleep in the same room as a Warlock! Their dark patrons come at night, and anyone else they see is considered a sacrifice."
85,"There is a powerful stone called the Wishing Stone lost somewhere by the river. It looks like a normal stone, but if you grab it and hold it tight, you'll get whatever you wish for."
86,You can tell if someone is secretly a doppleganger by holding a glowing coal to their lips and making them repeat a divine chant.
87,"Stirges - nasty creatures. They have psychic powers, you know, and if you bleed in a cave, they'll develop a taste for you. There ain't nowhere safe to hide from them."
88,"There's an old woman who wanders these roads who's a fairy queen in disguise. She'll ask you for something, and if you don't give it or you are rude to her, she'll turn you and your whole household into living objects!"
89,"If you outdrink a dwarf in a drink-for-drink contest, they will have to serve you for as many days as drinks you finish."
90,"There was a red dragon that was raised by gnomes, they say he tried to stay with them as long as he could, but then he grew too big. Some say he still lives in the mountains, helping lost travelers and doing good deeds like he was taught. Some say that he turned to his inner greed and burned the gnome village down, and that's why there's no gnomes in our village."
91,"Have you ever heard of Glenn of the Glen? An elf who was the smartest attorney there ever was! He was so good at contracts that he outsmarted Asmodeus Himself with a 10,000 page contract, and he now owns a piece of each of the Nine Hells. He is in Arcadia now, but he keeps up his control in Hades as a waystation for lost souls."
92,"Have you ever seen a half-dwarf? No? Didn't think so. That's because they are born with shapeshifting powers and can pass as anyone, or go invisible just like that. You may have passed one on the street today, but you'd never know."
93,Ever heard the legend of the invisledge? I haven't either but I know it's out there somewhere and one day I will be able to tell it.
94,"Have you ever heard of the astral giants of Sun, Moon, and Star? They're said to be the direct sons of Annam the All-Father, himself, each wielding a third of his power."
95,"Have you heard how trolltooth mountain came to be? It’s literally made out of the teeth that Erinkek The Invincible lost in battle, but they always grew back ye see, because he was a troll."
96,"Have I told you the tale of the strongest elf who ever lived? No one could best her in battle, she only ever died because she tried to climb trolltooth mountain and froze to death due to the cold winds."
97,There once lived a woman who on the first Dawn following a fool moon would transform into magical bird of fire. She would fly up to Sun and recharge it with her fiery passion to fight back the creeping power of night. Because of that the following night the Moon would begin to shrink again.
98,"You ever seen that town very yonder hill? Folks say it appeared over night one morn filled with people, the seem nice enough but when the sea fog floods in the town smells..... fishy."
99,"Once a traveler came upon a frog who claimed to be a powerful princess, who had been turned into a frog and that if he would only kiss her she could return to her kingdom and they would live together as king and queen. Well he did, and that frog was a princess, but a Bullywug princess. But a vow is a vow and now this human is king of an entire swamp of Bullywugs."
100,"A vile barbarian once killed a merchant over a slight. He went to jail peacefully, but he peed the whole way there, and it wasn't close by! We had to close the street, the smell was horrible."

d100,Entry

1,BEES: Bees are everywhere. You can't see or hear properly because of the storm of bees clouding your senses.
2,The last person or monster you killed is back and its coming for you.
3,You see the least scary thing you can imagine and are utterly terrified.
4,"Everything is submerged in water, but nobody else seems to recognize it."
5,Strange geometric shapes dance before your eyes.
6,A monster with terrifying scythe-like fingers sneaks up on your party members and harvests their arms to eat. None of them notice their missing limbs.
7,"There is a worm in your chest trying to eat its way out. You can’t feel it, but the skin on your torso ripples as it burrows beneath."
8,A deep purple fire is consuming the world from the horizon in.
9,The sun is growing brighter and hotter as you speak.
10,You are standing in the middle of a green field of grass dotted with flowers. Nothing could possibly harm you here.
11,"Life is a ruse. Everyone had marionette strings extending upwards from them, anything near you is a wooden prop, and anything in the distance is a painted backdrop."
12,"The entire world is on an island, and you see an eldritch monstrosity watching you from the sea."
13,Someone is calling you names. You want them to stop but you can’t tell who it is. Is it that shopkeeper? Your party’s cleric? The dog?
14,"Grinlock: You look around your party and see that one person appears to be functioning normally, but their eyes have rolled into the back of their head and their mouths have opened in a manic smile to the point that their jaws are straining not to break. People seem to get more and more jittery and begin to twitch and spasm at the corners of your vision. Eventually, nobody speaks. They simply open their mouths in this same manic smile, and almost vibrating in spasms. A cold feeling of dread comes over you as they all turn towards you before being shaken out of a stupor by your now perfectly normal party members."
15,"A rust monster appears. If multiple PCs are present, it should appear in a place that only the hallucinating PC has line of sight. If there is no such space available, the PC should roll a bogus Perception check to ""spot"" the rust monster."
16,"The hallucinating PC can ""see the Ethereal Plane"" overlaid on the Material Plane, and watches as frightening, wraithlike figures move slowly towards other members of the party, claws outstretched."
17,"All creatures suddenly vanish--no visual, auditory, or tactile stimuli can reach the PC."
18,The PC hears a dull crunch as a fine hairline crack appears on her melee weapon.
19,"The PC's skin begins to wriggle, then suddenly undergoes a rapid transformation. The change should be aesthetically in keeping with the source of the hallucination (ie, if due to spores, the PC's flesh becomes fungus-like; if due to poisonous vermin, his body becomes chitinous)."
20,"Colors turn more vivid and out of the corner of your eye, objects dance and laugh at your expense."
21,"Ask the party at the start of the session, ""what dangers are you worried about facing?"" Take the most appropriate one and hint of it's passage."
22,"You are slowly turning into a gelatinous cube, and no one else has noticed yet, but when they do, they will hunt you down like just another monster."
23,Your weapons are whispering. So are the other's weapons. They are going to come alive and kill your party when you sleep.
24,"By the fire, your eyes are drawn again to one of your companions. They are sleeping soundly, but one eyelid is flickering... as you get closer, the eyes spring open, and smoke comes pouring from his eyes and mouth. One hand reaches up to grab at you, and a cruel smile flashes across his face. ""So hungry... so tired of waiting..."" he says, in a deep rumble."
25,Your flesh warps slightly and ripples as if something is crawling beneath it.
26,"You see something shadowlike at the edge of your vision at night but every time you look it it, it disappears. Eventually it starts occurring even in the daytime. As time goes by, dreams of Shadows and whispers amongst a crowd of the living haunt you. The living continue on with their lives as if they are blind to these shadows who stare at you with bright, searing red eyes."
27,A voice is very quietly chanting in Infernal. It seems to be coming from overhead somewhere.
28,"When the tavern door opens, you realize everyone inside is a child dressed in adult clothes. Stepping across the threshold, you become a child in adult clothes."
29,You can't feel your legs. Why can't you feel your legs?
30,Everyone is whispering about you.
31,There is always something moving about in the shadows in the corner of your vision.
32,Eyes in paintings and statues seem to follow your every movement. If you're quick enough you can just catch them snapping back to their original positions.
33,The walls are breathing at the same rate you are.
34,The barbarians fur cloak is still alive. You can see it looking forlornly at you over his meaty shoulder.
35,"As you are talking to the shopkeeper, her skin begins to blister and slough off, until nothing remains but a bloody skull, still talking animatedly to you."
36,"Every time you look into a mirror, your reflection beckons you closer. If you press an ear against the mirror you can just make out ""you need to wake up!"""
37,"There is a large purple cat following you. It sometimes walks through solid objects, but seems solid enough when it brushes your leg."
38,"Everything fades and you find yourself sitting at a table in strange clothes with no armor or weapons. Your friends are dressed similarly, piles of books and papers in front of them as they watch, expectantly. You hear the roll of a die and at the head of the table a god shrugs and says ""Your PC's hallucination wears off..."" You wake up confused."
39,"Every time you are the only character to have LOS to a point within 100 feet, AND that point is within 10 feet of cover, you will, if that point is in your peripheral vision, see an ordinary chicken, walking toward the cover, pecking at the dirt. If you go to investigate, the chicken will have vanished, but there is some ambiguous trace of its presence: a fluff of down, some marks that might be tracks. If a point where the chicken might appear has a trap, treasure, secret door/panel or clue, have the character make a DC 15 Perception check. On a success, the chicken appears, and squawks or flaps its wings. After the third time the character finds something because of the chicken, escalate the delusion: now, the chicken's appearances and traces are clearly sending them a message that needs to be deciphered."
40,"You see your mother in a state you never hoped to see, even when you close your eyes the images are still there."
41,"After all these years you see your parents, they say that they didn't died/left and that they love you and will never leave you again."
42,"All of a sudden all the cats in the area start vomiting, all manner of objects sprout menacing spikes of stone."
43,"Suddenly, out from one of your pocket an elongated gnome pours forth, screaming the whole way out. Once outside, he turns to face you and starts mumbling, gargling and convulsing, only to, in a show of pyrotechnics, explode into a hail of many smaller versions of himself. One by one, they rise and start to run towards you, grabbing onto your clothes. They press themselves to you and stay there, crying profoundly."
44,"The next adventuring party you see are assassin's out to get you. They have duped your party, your friends and your family, but you know their true agenda."
45,"Your hands have become ethereal. Make a wisdom save for holding on to the equipment in your hands, and to pick up any equipment with your hands. On a failed save, drop it. Lose this condition after 2 succesful saves."
46,"Everything is a mimic. Make a wisdom saving throw whenever you are entering a room. On a failed save, attack a random piece of furniture. After rolling 5 saving throws, lose this condition. Reapply the condition if you actually attack a real mimic."
47,Your body becomes lead. Your movement speed drops to 5ft and all your attacks are made with disadvantage. You gain 2AC. Lose this debuff when you have taken 2 dash actions.
48,"A familiar hand rests on your shoulder. You hear them say that they love you, and that they have so much they would have told you if they had the time. If you stand still until they remove their hand (1 turn), regain 2d4+2HP. If you turn around, a faint wind blows past you, but noone is there."
49,"Colourful frogs start raining from the sky. Make a dexterity save. On a failed save you get pelted by poisonous frogs, gaining the poisoned condition. After the rain stops, the frogs melt away."
50,Your fingernails are missing. You cannot recall losing them. When you try to show this to someone else they are back in place.
51,Under the object/piece of furniture is a pool of blood of unknown origin. Other party members merely the shadow of the object.
52,Your blanket convulses and is a few inches closer to you then before it moved. Nobody else was looking that way and any spells would reveal no magic that would make it move.
53,"Tchotchke's Splendor - any room will occasionally feature an item or items of exceptional usefulness or value, seen only by the hallucinator. The number of false items increases as the room grows more cluttered. A well-organized room may have a small golden statue appear, for example, but a messy room could hold several arcane tomes and magical weapons. If the afflicted touches one such item, it instantly turns to a thick, foul-smelling ink that appears to stain their hand and any other items on contact. In reality, of course, nothing happens."
54,"The walls start to close in on you. If there are no walls, the ground raises to trap you."
55,You vomit a stream of teeth.
56,"The sky/ceiling becomes red, and you see the silhouette of a monster."
57,Everyone you see is your clone.
58,You see odd psychodelic color patterns.
59,Tons of insects raise from the ground.
60,Everything around you suddenly looks dead and barren.
61,"Everything suddenly becomes happy, colorful and cute"
62,Objects start to insult you. Really bad insults.
63,"While you are lying in bed, a completely black humanoid figure sits on your chest. You can't move and it is suffocating you with its weight."
64,You see transparent wiggly lines like eels flying across the sky at impossible speeds.
65,Rodents dart along the ground out of the corner of your eye. You can't turn your head fast enough to see them properly.
66,"You heard someone call your name, but it's no one."
67,A strange metallic taste fills your mouth.
68,"You have the sudden sensation of floating behind your body, observing yourself in third person."
69,"Something like a bug is definitely crawling on your skin and biting you, but when you look you can't find the cause."
70,"You clearly heard a person say X, but everyone else present insists the person said Y."
71,The whole world takes on a reddish hue and everyone's voices sound tinny and distorted.
72,You go to put on your boots and you see a snake coiled up in them.
73,A classic parade of pink elephants is marching by.
74,"All your pores expand to a large size and you can see in them. Dirt, bugs, and dust are falling into them."
75,"A radish suddenly flies into your mouth and begins forcing its way down your throat, choking you."
76,"You see above a planet, lit by no sun, all wide turbulent oceans and deep black forests and jagged, piercing mountains. A low hum sounds in your ear. The planet takes up more of the sky- you can’t look away from it. It fills your field of view far beyond what should be possible. Something beneath those black seas slithers, hunting, hungering, starving. You blink, and the feeling is gone."
77,"You hear the voices of your childhood best friend, describing some childish adventure you went on together when you were young, jumping and laughing and playing in the wilderness. As the story goes on, your friend becomes quieter and his voice wavers, as he talks about that ill-fated leap, where you jumped too far, fell, and died. The voice fades."
78,"Your weapon begins insulting you, berating you and calling you a failure. Your armor and tools try to defend you and they start arguing."
79,"Your fellow party members begin to resemble large, humanoid, chittering crabs. They smell of sea-salt so strongly you want to puke. They speak in garbled, alien voices and move erratically about like insects."
80,Every time you take a step musical notes are played
81,"You think that you are constantly being licked (be it by an imaginary litter of puppies, each head of a chimera or one very creepy orc)"
82,You hallucinate that you have a baby in your hands that you feel inherently inclined to over-protect
83,If inside the walls of the room begin closing in on you/if outside the ground begins to crack and split
84,A small object in the vicinity comes to life and beings moving of its own volition.
85,"Characters and some objects emit violently bright auras, making them difficult to look at directly."
86,An inanimate object begins to strike up a very boring conversation with you.
87,"All straight lines and edges begin to wobble and shiver, causing mild nausea if stared at."
88,"You feel blood dripping from your nose, ears and eyes."
89,"All inanimate objects in the room begin to release coloured gasses, which have smells ranging from delightful to foul."
90,You feel as if your torso and your legs are separated by a distance of three feet (horizontally or vertically at the DM's discretion).
91,"You feel your skin begins to transform into one of the following (d8 roll) - stone, brick, brass, silver, gold, wood, glass, paper."
92,You feel as if your fingers and toes are elongating. Hand and foot coverings become unbearable to wear and it is difficult to walk or hold objects.
93,"You feel like your body is slowly melting, like a candle with a too hot flame."
94,"You feel like you are being rained on. If the hallucination is ignored, the rain begins to turn to sleet, and then hail if ignored again."
95,"The eyes of everyone around you start to change shape or colour, unless you hold eye contact. Whenever you break contact, they're eyes have changed again."
96,"The wind is guiding you. You can only be stationary or move in the same direction the wind is blowing. If there are no detectable air currents, you move around as normal."
97,"There is something shadowy at the periphery of your vision. Every time you turn to try and see it, there is noting there. When you turn back, it's back at the edge of your sight."
98,"You feel like someone is sneaking up behind you. You hear occasional breathing, footsteps and muffled sounds of movement."
99,Everyone in your immediate vicinity has suddenly become young children. You are the only adult present and need to tell everyone what to do. Anyone misbehaving or talking back needs a good smacking.
100,"You feel it is incredibly important to revisit the last place you went to the bathroom, and you will find tour great destiny there."

d100,Entry

1,Red Rot - A disease that is contracted by direct contact with a red ooze. The ooze attaches itself to the skin of the person and slowly rots the flesh away at the point of contact.
2,Gambling Addiction - Will save or compelled to gamble when presented with opportunity.
3,"The Screaming Sickness - The victim moans and screams in their sleep, making it hard for those sleeping near the victim to get a good night’s rest."
4,"Slate Fever - An uncommon sickness that causes skin to become hard and brittle. Originating from the underdark and eventually making its way to the surface, Slate Fever propagates through contact with mosses and fungi contaminated with the disease, as well as through contact with the affected skin of those with the sickness. Early symptoms include a slight grey discoloration of skin tone, uncomfortable stiffness, and unusual amounts of neck and back cracking when moving. The symptoms eventually progress to the point where the diseased becomes noticeably grey and stiff, causing them to move in small, jerk-like motions and have their speed reduced by half. In addition, the diseased develops exceptionally brittle skin that cracks easily and painfully. This gives them vulnerability to bludgeoning damage and causes them to frequently make Constitution saving throws to avoid taking 1d4 damage from shattering parts of their skin with excessive contact. The disease itself usually passes by itself over the course of one week resting and recuperating, but can be cured within 2 days if the diseased is properly treated with a combination of various tree saps. Catching this disease once results in the diseased being more vulnerable to it in the future."
5,"Spectre's Decay - The victim's soul and body separate but continue to move in unison. Without a soul the body rapidly degenerates and decays over the course of a year, however wherever the flesh forms holes or rips the ghost of the person continues to stand. This continues until the body has completely decomposed and the ghost is left to wander the earth, unable to pass into an afterlife. This disease can rarely be contracted through contact with undead who have lingering souls."
6,"Summoning Sickness - Due to a teleportation spell gone wrong, your stomach and head are all turned around. Disadvantage on ability checks and saving throws until all your parts manage to realign properly."
7,"Casters Cough - Due to a nasty infection having spent too much time in a component pouch, you have a nasty magical cough. Whenever you cast a spell there is a 25 percent chance that you must roll on the Wild Surge Table."
8,Goblinitis - every hour you have a 50% chance of alternating between your normal form and that of a goblin.
9,Hydrophobia - you are afraid of any body of water larger than a small puddle. Disadvantage on ability checks when in or on water.
10,"Begger's Pox - weeping sores break out over your face, making you hard to look upon. Disadvantage in charisma checks without some form of face covering."
11,"Drunken Fool - slurred speech and perpetual dizziness make you appear drunk, disadvantage on acrobatics checks and charisma checks unless engaged with someone drinking alcohol."
12,"Sewer Rat Flu - When bitten by a sewer rat, the effect is just like the regular flu, but 3 times worse. PC vomits through out most of the day. To determine when PC vomits, roll a percentile die every 30 minutes in game, If even then vomit, if odd, nothing happens. Vomiting will force the PC to stop what ever action they are doing, and breaks concentration. Vomiting every 3rd time will also cough up blood. Roll 1d4 to calculate damage. The cure is to drink very hard alcohol, and let it dissolve the stomach acid poison. Another option is to survive 10 hours. A lesser restoration spell automatically cures it. Orcs, Half-orcs, and Drow are immune to this."
13,"Transmutation Overload - this can happen if multiple transmutation spells occur on the same time on the same subject or subjects. it deforms the subject to something in the middle of all of them, but also makes the sick immune to transmutation spells, no more room for magic on this body! (based on the wonderful manga dorohedoro)"
14,Magical Discord - You begin to lose connection to the forces of magic. Each day your spellcasting ability drops by 1 point until you're cured.
15,"Vorel's Phage - Disease starts by imposing one Exhaustion level on the affected creature, in which small patches of bumps erupt on the inflicted creature's skin and the joints swell painfully. After an incubation period of 1d4-1 nights, the creature gains another level of Exhaustion and the bumps become raised and fungal looking. On the first occurrence of a new moon after the incubation period, the infected creature gains 2 more Exhaustion levels. If this kills the creature, it rises again after 1d4-1 nights as a wight. If a blood moon occurs at any point after incubation, the creature instead just succeed in a DC 15 Constitution saving throw or die immediately, raising in a minute as a wight. Exhaustion levels gained by this disease reappear every morning and only a miracle, wish or some other similar magic can permanently remove them without curing the disease."
16,"Swordbearer's Bane - The disease is contracted by contact with an infected creature's blood. After the incubation period of 1d4 days, the hands and feet of the infected creature begin to swell and become tender. This causes the creature to lose 5ft of movement and imposes disadvantage on Dexterity (Slight of hand) checks. After another 7-1d4 days, the infection causes the hosts extremities to go numb. The infected creature's movement speed is halved and the creature is treated as if it were under the effect of a Bane spell until it is cured."
17,"The Turquoise Death - This disease is contracted by contact with a creatures bodily fluids, and the disease remains infectious weeks after the fluid has evaporated, but only if rehydrated. After the initial 1d3 day incubation period the infected will start to notice heart palpitations, and will note slow recovery rates. The infected creature can no longer remove levels of exhaustion, and failed death saving throws permanently reduce the number of death saving throws the creature can fail in the future before death occurs. Both effects are permanent after the creature has gone without treatment for more than a month."
18,Hippogryff Hives - A an itchy rash that makes it unbearable to wear armor or heavy clothing until it’s treated. Highly contagious via skin to skin contact.
19,"Tapeworm - Unnoticeable for the first month, for three months after must eat twice as much as normal each day. After three months, receives a penalty to constitution as you can no longer extract enough nutrients before the parasite consumes the food."
20,"Monstrous Tapeworm - As above, but after six months, it eats it way out of the stomach, kills, then finally consumes the host. Treatment is recommended before that happens."
21,Brain Fever - caught from proximity to Underdark denizens. Causes paranoia (disadvantage on Charisma checks due to distrustfulness)
22,Carrion Fever - Causes migraines and an intense craving of raw meat.
23,"Acidblight - Slowly causes blood and other bodily fluids to become more and more corrosive, dealing acid damage slowly over time."
24,The Yellow Plague - Pus and bile ooze from the afflicted's pores. They gain a level of fatigue every day it is untreated.
25,Ser Avidore's Fire - Magical multi-colored rashing of the skin. Can sometimes flare up and deal a type of magical damage to those afflicted. Common among magic users.
26,"Cobblestone Sickness - After a bite from a cockatrice, the body will slowly turn to stone."
27,Two-Left-Feet Syndrome - Any kind of saving throw is disadvantaged as well as -4 for any number for any roll.
28,"The Common Cold - Just a cold. You’ll cough and sneeze, but that’s about it"
29,"Conjurer's Mania - A mental illness that worsens over time. The afflicted believes that they are able to create life, and seeks out new ways to do so. Becomes obsessed with anything that they have 'created.' If the afflicted has no means for creating life, magically or otherwise, they may start to irrationally believe that inanimate objects are their living creations. May start believing other 'summoners' creations' are their own creations that have been stolen. May eventually progress to compulsion to steal newborn animals, monsters, or humanoids, or become unstable when seeing another magic user summoning a creature."
30,"Third Eye Blind - Unable to communicate telepathically, but also unable to be targeted telepathically and is unaffected by any method that would not work on a creature without an intelligence. Recalling images from memory become hazy and unreliable. Penalties to any checks to recall visual information from memory. This disease tends to present itself in those who have been the target of many unwanted telepathic intrusions. Some humanoids are hereditarily predisposed to this disease, and may be afflicted upon after their first telepathic intrusion."
31,"Desert Fever - Skin takes on a red tinge, fever & bouts of cold sweat. Treat unusually warm or cold weather as hazardous temperatures. Often a physical ailment caused by interacting with malicious djinn magic. May be transmitted orally."
32,"Displacer's Malalignment - Appears to be the common cold, but is actually a disease that can be deadly for magic users & planar travelers. Afflicted must make a check to succeed any teleportation spell or ability. On a failed check, will move the afflicted 1d6ft in a random direction. Afflicted may be damaged or killed if teleported into a solid object. (If playing DnD, use the Teleportation spell's Mishap rules) This disease often causes magic users to be incredibly wary of those presenting symptoms of the common cold. Spread through ingesting of bodily fluids, most commonly from the sneezes or runny nose of the afflicted."
33,"Woodland Mania - Afflicted believes to have gained the ability to speak with animals. The animals that they believe they are talking to may or may not exist, and all conversations tend to cause paranoia. Spread through bites, may be transmitted by animals."
34,"Other-Otherworldy Whispers - A mental illness that causes the afflicted to believe that they are receiving knowledge from another dimension. In truth, the advice & knowledge that they get are delusional. The Afflicted tends to become a know-it-all, and the whispers encourage & bolster their cockiness."
35,"Slippery sickness - Your skin constantly oozes a greasy fluid. Without shoes, you're liable to trip. Without gloves, you're liable to drop objects. The upside is that monsters will have a hard time grabbing your skin."
36,"Brilliant Urine Disease - You get dehydrated twice as quickly as usual, and your urine glows neon yellow, brightly enough that a pint glass of it could substitute for a torch. Spread through pollen in heavy forests, this disease is the bane of scouts, spies, and hunters."
37,"Wild Stench - You give off an odor that is undetectable to humans and many other humanoid species like dwarves and orcs, but can be smelled by most mammals, fish, and insects from far away. They find it highly offensive and will flee from it. Only the bravest scent hounds can be convinced to track such a scent. It is rumored that wild stench is the partly successful result of a magical experiment to keep crops safe from wild animals. Curiously, dragons find it pleasant and may ask where you got that enchanting perfume."
38,"Beard Agnosia - You lose the ability to recognize a beard. You have great difficulty recalling or describing a beard, or noticing that somebody has grown or shaved a beard. In advanced cases, sufferers of beard agnosia can be looking at themselves in the mirror and be unable to tell whether they just shaved off their beard or they've gone a month without shaving it. Fortunately, this disease is less common in men than women. Unfortunately, it is more common in dwarves."
39,"Puffs - Fungi based parasite. Creature becomes infected after inhaling airborne spores. First sign of symptoms appears to be nothing more than mild acne. Soon, several of the 'zits' begin to grow larger. Not unnaturally large for such blemishes. Finally, a single 'puff' quickly grows to the size of a grape and bursts into a small cloud of spores that quickly spread in a breeze, infecting those around the host, as well as leaving a large 'pockmark' in it's place. The fungus, while growing inside the host, causes ever growing feelings of loss and loneliness, pushing the host to seek out more and more companionship. If the fungus is allowed to reach fruition and spore, the sense of loneliness transitions into a permanent and inconsolable state of depression."
40,"Tiny Devil - when having an unprotected sexual intercourse with dwarves you have a 35% possibility of getting this disease. Tieflings and succubus' are immune to this disease. Dwarves do not suffer the effects of this disease but can infect other humanoids. If you have the Tiny Devil, your skin becomes very dry and making Athletics checks, Acrobatics checks and Dex saving throws gives you 1d4 slashing damage(little wounds forms on your limbs, they can be cured only by magic). If you are a male, your ding ding dong burns very bad(no damage suffered unless you have sex. If so you take 1d4 fire damage per minute). To get rid of this disease: female: this disease will go away in 1d12 months. male: you need to cut your THING of infect 4d10 humanoids with this disease."
41,"Death Luck - if you fail a saving throw with a 1 you have 10% chance of getting this disease(1d100, from 90-100). While you are infected you produce one Wild Magic effect every 2d12 hours and your skin hardens(you have disadvantage on Dex checks aka all skills that count on dexterity and all saving throws but you gain +1 to your AC). This disease is contagious and can be transmitted through touch. It can be cured with 25 days of resting doing nothing but eating, drinking(alcohol might help) and sleeping."
42,"The Dreaded Mallergy - Few have survived the infliction of this fabled contagion. Not much is understood about the Mallergy, but patients are struck with a deep sense of dread as they become bedridden and sweat constantly. 48 hours after the disease has set in they can no longer move. If they do not fight off the infection they succumb to asphyxiation and perish."
43,The Wariness - PCs develop this disease though interactions/attacks from psychic creatures. All insight checks result in the PC believing that others are lying to or trying to harm them.
44,"The Illusionary Insomnia - The first symptom is an inability to sleep through non magical means. After 2 days the patient begins to hallucinate. After three days these hallucinations begin to manifest as magical illusions. As the patient nears a week without sleep, the illusions become more physical as their mental state deteriorates. The user finally falling asleep through magical means is the only known cure."
45,"Marked Blood - After swimming in any sort of sewage, under a city or in a refuse dump, microscopic creatures have sublimated into your blood stream. They lie dormant until you move to a different sewage system. Once there you have to succeed in DC x wisdom saving throw or you use your action to slash yourself till your blood pours out."
46,Wraith Eyes - The person goes blind for random d20 periods of d10 minutes.
47,Necrotic Blight - The disease causes double the amount of necrotic damage to be dealt to this infected person.
48,Happy Cancer - This disease causes people to slowly die over a d20 period of days. At the end the infected is over joyed with the sweet release of death.
49,Ogre Poisoning - Turns the infected humanoid into a Ogre after d20 days of being infected without treatment.
50,"Winter Insomnia - When the temperature around the infected person drops below fifty degrees, the person will pass out and won't awake until the temperature increases."
51,Hostile Cough - When someone infected coughs on another humanoid who isn't infected that person becomes hostile toward the person who coughed on them.
52,Soft Bones - The player's AC drops two points until cured.
53,Golden Tumor - The tumor starts as a small gold tumor then advances to the rest of the body. Once the disease has ran its course the subjects body is completely made of gold. Bet you didn't known were gold coins came from.
54,Swamp Rage - Pissed off about swamp people.
55,Beer Depression - When the infected person drinks more than 2d6 cups of beer they become depressed for 4d4 hours.
56,Demon Ears - This person can only hear what demons tell it.
57,Zombie Delirium - Becomes Delirious about the undead.
58,Rabbit Panic - This person can't eat rabbit without being panicked for 2d8 hours.
59,Hemophilia - double bleed damage
60,"Tetanus - disadvantage on dex throws after 1 day, total paralysis after 4 days, death check every day after the 7th day"
61,Creeping cough - disadvantage on infiltration throws
62,"Spasm of The Entrails - the PC cannot regenerate health by eating and resting, can be caught when fighting against animal abominations"
63,"Skin Rose - a red mark that slowly spread around a wound like a flower, after 2 weeks spawns little parasites that will drain the PC of his energy (disadvantage on CON throws). the pattern has to be burned deeply to kill the parasites. Take care of your handsome heroes"
64,"Leprosis - the PC's skin start to slowly deteriorate and wounds don't cicatrize anymore, the PC also becomes slowly immune to physical pain."
65,"Narcoleprosy - Your limbs and digits have an extreme tendency to fall asleep in relaxing conditions. If left untreated, your arms, legs, fingers, and toes can become shortened and deformed, as cartilage is absorbed into the body."
66,"Humanoid Immunodeficiency Virus - The diseased person suffers general flu-like symptoms (runny nose, coughing, aches in joints) for a few days that eventually pass. The true danger of this disease comes later. If the underlying virus is left untreated, the affected's immune system degrades tremendously, temporarily losing one ability point in Constitution each month until the disease is treated, gaining all lost Constitution back on the next long rest. If left untreated, the affected will also suffer a permanent level of exhaustion every 6 months that does not go away even after the disease is treated."
67,"Arboreal Petrification, or The Dryad's Rot - They say to slay a dryad is bad luck. But killing a dryad who is ill or favored by the gods will surely inflict this disease should any of her sap touch your skin. First, blindness and deafness slowly takes you, soon followed by sluggishness and fatigue. Then, your body begins to painfully turn, inside out, into the hard, coarse bark of an old dying tree. Your body rejects food, so you begin to starve. You require ten times the amount of water you normally do, or you will die of thirst. Your limbs become too heavy to move and your skin takes the flaky, layered appearance of wood chips. Your throat will eventually become thick and you will die of asphyxiation, and finally your body will be grown over with bark, and you will become a misshapen pile of vile sap and wood."
68,"Hairasite - Many of the entities hairs have been replaced by long, light worms, latching on to the victim’s scalp. Disadvantage on all charisma checks until the victim takes fire damage or is magically healed."
69,"Involuntary Mirror Touch Synthesia - Whenever the victim sees someone take damage, they take 1d4 psychic damage. If the victim is the one attacking, they take an additional 1d4+1"
70,Chronic Shrinking - A possible effect of transmutation magic gone wrong. The victim shrinks to one half their previous height every week until cured. This disease is contagious if anyone is near the victim for an extended period of time.
71,"Grave Grub - In infection given from maggots that have grown inside an undead creature that were transferred to a living humanoid during some close-quarters encounter. Causes the infected to make a DC 15 Constitution saving throw, on a failure the infected's movement is reduced by half, their Constitution & Charisma score lower by 1 point and and they get Disadvantage on Persuasion checks due to visible greenish rot growing out of their ears, mouth, nostrils, and eye sockets. Every midnight they can make another Constitution saving throw, if they fail 3 in a row the humanoid suffers the effects permanently."
72,Magic Allergy - You experience a mild allergic reaction to prolonged exposure to anything even slightly magical. 'Oh is that an achoo everburning torch? achoo!'
73,"Cheatersbane - you vomit vigorously when attempting sexual contact. May be made to explicitly allow intimacy with one particular person. Intended for suspicious spouses, but accidentally found a cult following among emetophiles."
74,"Noblewind - you fart uncontrollably, but it smells sweet. Everybody notices."
75,"Polychromia - each of your eyes view the world as if through a randomly-colored sheet of glass. Every day, the colors change."
76,Bard's Revenge - your ears constantly hear a repeating brief tune.
77,The Twisted Tongue - The patient begins to swear and insult others by chance. They can't control it.
78,The Paralyzed Tongue - The patient is not able to move his tongue while talking. Very often they let their tongue stick out to of their mouth get rid of their pain too.
79,The Shaking Parrot - Whenever a trigger word comes up during a conversation (said by the patient or someone else). The patient repeats the word out loud. Sometimes they repeat the trigger word combined with a whole sentence (always the same). While they are triggered they jump around or shake their body or repeat one specific movement again and again.
80,The Soldier's Fear - Whenever fear or high stress manifests in the mind of a warrior they begin to see illusions. If the fighter spots an enemy his will is testet (DC10 or DC15 if the infection is older that 2 weeks). If his mind fails he sees multiple enemies or enemies in a different more dangerous form.
81,The Golden Vision - One becomes obsessed with gold. The patient recognizes the true worth of everything. They try to take possession of everything valuable to sell it for gold. They stop at nothing. They steal or use force. However if they get only a glace on gold pieces they lose the ability to count and just want to take the money with them and leave. They often begin to store their gold in a hidden place or bury it.
82,Oil of Ferrosix - Slowly turns those infected into mindless Warforged. Highly contagious but can be cured or halted by golems and Warforged.
83,"Animaseperatism - Over the course of 1d6 days, your soul slowly exits the body. Over this time you may lose interest in a hobby or lose motivation in fighting the big bad, it can be stopped if you meet a cleric fast enough, but if not, you must acquire a vessel for the soul and roll disadvantage on all skill checks for 1d6 days."
84,"Cephalogorgonism - colloquially referred to as getting medusaed, your hair turns to snake (yes all hair). The only known treatments are a buzzcut or using a lot of shampoo."
85,Medusa Rash - A slow growing petrification. Lasting as short a month to as long as several years the rash will slowly spread causing the flesh to turn to stone. The disease is 100% fatal with the disadvantages becoming more pronounced as full limbs become petrified.
86,"The Vanishing Plague - Turns people invisible, highly contagious."
87,"Tinder Sickness - Gives you a dry cough and vulnerability to fire damage, you explode if you are dropped to zero hit points by fire damage."
88,"Slime stomach - A slime is in your stomach. It could have crawled in when you were sleeping, or maybe it was a spore in something you ate. It causes major pain, gives you bad acid reflux, and devours your food, leaving you malnourished. The only known solution is to swallow baking powder and pray to a god of healing."
89,Burning passion - A magical disease that causes you to get burns whenever you do something you love. first degree for eating your favorite food. Second degree for practicing your hobby. Third degree when you express love to your closest ones.
90,"Frogtongue - The afflicted's tongue gradually becomes malleable and sticky, like a ball of taffy, and the afflicted gradually loses the ability to pronounce words and enunciate. At its most advanced stages, the tongue can be protruded and retracted exactly as a frog's tongue, and the afflicted loses the ability to speak. Other symptoms include a craving for flies and an undying hatred for the wizard that crafted this ailment."
91,"Mindbane - A magic psychic ailment passed by proximity with the afflicted, Mindbane shows those suffering it The Things Man Was Not Meant To See. Early stages of this ailment only seep into feverish nightmares, but later stages show unrelenting visions causing dissociation from reality, permanent psychosis, and even apparent death from insanity. This ailment can arise organically from contact with certain creatures from outside the mortal world."
92,"Green-Skinned Death - This disease causes the unfortunate afflicted's bones to decay inside their bodies, becoming brittle and snapping with regular usage and movement. The one tell-tale sign is that the afflicted's skin develops a pale green hue from the decay. The most common forms of death from this ailment are high blood toxicity and internal bleeding from a bone shard rupturing a vital organ."
93,"Bloodfungus - A parasitic mushroom spread by internal contact with spores, bloodfungus grows mycelium throughout the mortal body, feeding on the nutrients passed through the digestive tract and blood stream. After two months of relatively silent incubation, the mycelium will flower, bursting small fruiting-body stalks the size of an index finger from the skin along the afflicted's appendages, which flower in a day and quickly begin to release spores. Further, the mortal's nervous system is affected, producing extreme anxiety unless they seek out contact with other mortals."
94,"Devil Rot - A horrible disease caused by contact with devils and demons, the victim's flesh becomes hotter and hotter to the touch. While victims eventually spontaneously combust, in the meantime they gain resistance to fire and their touch does an additional 1d6 heat damage."
95,"Moor plague - An unpleasant illness caused by scratches and cuts in foul swamps, this illness slowly turns the victim's skin green; additionally, the victim begins to emit the most unpleasant stench. Victims are Slowed while suffering this disease."
96,"Salt plague - This unpleasant disease feeds on the victim's salt levels. The victim eventually loses her humanity as her salt cravings become so intense that she becomes violent, seeking the salty blood of other victims."
97,"White Fog - This illness attacks the eyes of the patient, slowly eroding his vision. Patients tend to see an increasingly opaque white fog obscuring their vision. Victims are Blind while suffering this disease."
98,"Wyrm Flu - Supposedly an illness originally suffered by great dragons, this injury-transmitted disease is often suffered by those who survive attacks by wyrms and similar creatures. Victims are fatigued while suffering this disease."
99,"Dragon fever - A magical disease contracted by being near Draconic influences for far too long. The symptoms start as a simple change in the eyes, making them take the look of a dragon, but other than that the patient feels fine. If not treated then the second stage of the sickness begins, the patient becomes near obsessed with wealth and money, and will do anything to get it even at the expense of others. This may be subtle at first but once the third phase begins most people know exactly what has happened. The final phase involves a fever that if not treated constantly can kill the patient. However if this last phase is survived, the patient finds themselves with some sign of Draconic nature, like horns or a small scales on parts of the body."
100,"Qi Disconnect Disorder - You have advantage on physical skills made with just the right side of the body, disadvantage on all other attacks and skill checks. Cure with 1d4 days of meditation."

d100,Entry

1,"Upon reaching 0 HP, you lose 1d4 teeth."
2,You break your left leg.
3,"You hit your head on the way down, -1 INT."
4,One of your lungs collapses. You take 1 point of exhaustion and cannot make an athletics roll without taking another.
5,"When you open your eyes again, your eyes sting and your vision feels wrong. You take -5 to all ranged attack rolls."
6,"Your nerves are shot, for 1d4+ 3 days, you feel no pain and the DM tracks your health without your knowledge"
7,You suffer from flashbacks.
8,"When a fellow pc falls to 0 hp within your line of sight, roll 1d4. 1 and 2: no effect. 3: player enters a barbarian rage regardless of class for 1d4 rounds. 4: player enters a memory trance and is unresponsive for 1d4 rounds."
9,"You've been close to death before, but this time was one too many. The next time you roll initiative in combat you must succeed on a DC 14 Wisdom saving throw or drop whatever you are holding and become Frightened for one minute."
10,Corpse explosion.
11,The player suffers 1d4+1 levels of exhaustion
12,"The blade sliced across your face leaving a nasty, ugly scar. -1 charisma."
13,The final blow blew a hole through your armor. It now has -1 AC.
14,"Upon waking, the player is confused for 1d4 hours."
15,Shrapnel in the heart - A slither of metal broke away from the blade that knocked you unconscious. -1 to Death Saving Throws.
16,The reaper (or other death entity) takes pity on you and allows you to live. However takes your soul as payment.
17,Lose any sense of morality. If the player or party prefers the character can still make what they think are moral decisions. Essentially basing it off of what they remember morality being like.
18,You start to limp. Your walking speed is permanently reduced by 5 ft.
19,Your hands are crushed. Lose any proficiency with Sleight of Hand checks and any stringed instruments.
20,"Minor amnesia. You forget one cantrip you know, or one language if you have no cantrips."
21,"Your whole body is in pain, making it difficult to sleep. Treat the next Long Rest you take as if it were a Short Rest."
22,"You permanently injure your right leg. You walk with a limp from now on. -5 ft. walking speed, -10 ft. running speed. (Or both are halved? Your call.)"
23,You suffer permanent hearing damage in your left ear due to head injury.
24,"Whenever you go to sleep, roll a D8. If you roll a 1, you have traumatic nightmares and do not gain the benefits of sleep. (To make this meaner: roll a D8 again. If it lands on 1 the second time, gain one level of exhaustion unless the new exhaustion level would kill you.)"
25,Player loses a thumb. Disadvantage on one handed melee attacks with that hand.
26,You lose 1d4 fingers.
27,"The scar tissue makes you tougher, +1 to AC, -1 to dexterity."
28,"You gain a new flaw: ”I have become addicted to the thrill of danger, being close to death is the only thing that makes me feel alive.”"
29,You muscle tissue is permanently damaged. -2 to strength.
30,A large and deep scar on the player’s back.
31,One eye loses all sight and falls out.
32,A permanent bruise lays in the center of the player’s chest.
33,Both arms break badly.
34,Tear your hamstring . -1 to initiative
35,Back spasms. Str -1.
36,The wound seriously messes up something deep inside you. You have disadvantage on death saves until you are healed by powerful magic.
37,"Death is angered by you coming so close to him and surviving, and warns you in a vision that the next time you come close to death, he will take your soul."
38,"Blow to the head - wake up speaking another language, have to re-learn common."
39,Character develops a phobia of the weapon or damage type that put it down.
40,Hit legs or feet - reduced movement speed after getting up.
41,Revenge from beyond - character will only attack the baddie that took him down (if still up).
42,A malevolent spirit catches you as you fall. You are possessed.
43,"An ancient prophecy is revealed. As you fall, you see it's machinations in action. As you sleep, more may be revealed."
44,Player carries a permanent scar at the point of injury.
45,"You will never be able to sleep well again, roll a d4 every long rest - if the result is 4, you don't recover hp."
46,You gain the tattoo of whoever/whatever brought you to 0 hp.
47,Your spine takes a crushing hit. You are paralyzed from the waist down. Your speed drops to 5 and you are considered prone.
48,You stop breathing and cannot making saving throws. You need to be stabilized before 1d4+1 rounds.
49,You subsequently have vivid/intrusive flashbacks to this moment.
50,You suffer from immense guilt until you make amends with someone you wronged.
51,You are possessed until a special ceremony is performed.
52,You are linked to the creature who brought you to 0 HP. The pain it suffers is split between you both for 1d4 rounds.
53,You gain one weakness of the creature who brought you to 0 HP.
54,"No physical side-effects, but you gain an unhealthy emotional obsession with the person who saved you."
55,"You suffer from intense dizziness, and must make a DC 10 saving throw or fall prone."
56,"You receive mild tinnitus, and get disadvantage for 1d4 hours on aural perception checks."
57,"As you fall unconscious, a strange, black, eldritch symbol flashes above your chest, though you do not see it."
58,"A rich, deep, velvety voice begins to seep through your mind like water through a sponge, offering you comfort and good advice. It eventually begins to suggest that you obtain women to follow you around, which you may provide the services of in exchange for currency. The voice makes these suggestions in the most reasonable ways it can to start, but begins to grow more urgent the longer you go without “pimping” out a woman, though it will never suggest doing anything that is less than effective at achieving it’s desires."
59,"Skin begins to flake off of you with alarming frequency, resulting in you having perpetually loose and sensitive skin. You now feel changes in temperature more extremely, and sheds your skin at an unnatural rate when brought close to 0 HP."
60,"You experience a minor reversal in the way your brain works, resulting in you switching which hand is your dominant hand. If you are ambidextrous, roll a 1d3 to determine which hand is your dominant one: 1: Your right hand. 2: Your left hand. 3: Neither hand, you have no dominant hand and are equally awkward with both of them."
61,"You partially lose your sense of taste and smell, making every flavor resemble rot and every scent smell of decay. This is the case for every scent and taste except for all things festering and putrid, which smell like fresh meals and taste like gourmet delicacies."
62,"Severe damage to the nether regions. No stat loss, you just feel sad."
63,You manage to cauterize the wound on your foot but lose a toe. You now forever have an insistent phantom itch where your toe used to be but no toe to scratch. You wonder if Hell would’ve been worse.
64,You manage to survive but your spine remains stiff and sore. You now have to drag along a soft mattress or pay for a decent inn to have a Long Rest.
65,The wound on your head has healed but has left a large circular scar on your scalp where no hair will grow. Everyone now believes you’re a monk.
66,You’ve suffered a blow to the head and got a concussion. You have bouts of madness which leave you temporarily and unpredictably incapacitated (1d4 turns) until you’ve had a Long Rest.
67,"Anawn, God of Death has come to claim your soul. You manage to bribe him with a kitten and live to tell the tale. Next time any character dies you see Death wave to you smiling with a kitten on his arm."
68,"You manage to dodge a blow/spell that would’ve killed you, but it catches your backpack instead and destroys a random item (roll a die)."
69,The wound you’ve acquired remains painful and you’ve become addicted to pain killers. Each healing potion leaves you with -1 Dex for one hour.
70,"Ringing ears, you are deaf for 1d4 rounds."
71,The burn/ice/poison/acid damage to your skin has caused permanent discoloration in your complexion. -2 CHA
72,Your life being spared has made you into a religious person ~or~ your brush with death has made you bitter and you turn your back on your god.
73,"For 1d4 days, you fight your wound from gangrenous infection with Medicine checks by you or an ally. If any check fails, you must remove a part of the limb the infection is located."
74,"To reach your wounds, your allies need to cut away your clothing. You are now naked."
75,"Your armor is badly damaged, but salvageable. It cannot be worn again until repaired."
76,"In the cusp of death and in the heat of battle, you later find that you lost your weapon at the site of the battle. DMs should not inform the PC of this effect until the next time they try and use the weapon."
77,"You come away mostly unharmed, but you have lost the ability to use your genitalia in sexual manner."
78,You have lost an identifying characteristic of your race:
79,"Elf, Half-Elf, Gnome - The tops of your ears have been lost and are rounded as a humans. . Dwarf - Your beard has been lost and the skin has been damaged in a way that it cannot grow back. . Half-Orc - You have lost your lower fangs. . Dragonborn - You lose all or part of your tail. . Tiefling - You lose all or part of your tail ~or~ all or part of one of your horns has broken off or shattered. . Halfling, Human - You get off scott-free and comment that if you were X, you'd have lost your X."
80,The glow in your eyes have faded. You no longer have darkvision if it was granted your race.
81,You have lost attunement with your weapon/armor/etc. (pick one).
82,"By some very low and unlikely chances, a creature flying overhead defecates into your mouth while you lay unconscious. Everything tastes bitter and terrible for the next 2d8 days."
83,Your wounds have you cough up blood as you lay unconscious. You automatically lose 1 death save as you struggle to breath.
84,"Having the life knocked out of you caused a bowel movement. You smell terrible, your pants are horribly soiled, and you get a -3 to all your CHA saves until you are properly cleaned up."
85,Your magical energy has drained from you. You now have a -1 to your spell save dc until you can spend >8 hours of meditation in a holy place.
86,Minor amnesia. You forget who your other party members are and why you're even on this quest.
87,The attack melted/broke 4d20% of the coin you had on you.
88,"You just don't feel right, as if you need to retrain your worn body to get back into the flow of things. You lost (Level*500) XP."
89,A soothing wound that threatens to poison your blood for 5 days if not tended to daily with a dc of 15 on medicine. If poisoned ( after two fails to sterilize wound) you get sick and lose 1d4 max hp each day until the wound has been healed.
90,"Necrotic wound - if not healed by powerful holy magic your wound starts to damage your nerves, the skin starts to rot away, maggots start to crawl inside it, gets worse over time."
91,"Near death experience - your character gets the alignment opposite of what he had before, standing on deaths door changed you profoundly."
92,"Skull fracture - when moving to rapid or fast, the world starts spinning and you will have -2 to all saving throws or skill checks that involve movement to the point of throwing up. This modifier lasts for 1d10 days unless fully healed by potion or magic. Not with normal resting though."
93,"You bit off a part of your tongue as you fell, making it harder to speak and giving you a lisp. Disadvantage on Cha skill checks (Deception, Intimidation, Performance & Persuasion) involving speech."
94,"A blow to your neck has affected the coordination between your left and your right, making it hard to use them effectively again. Disadvantage on attack rolls with two-handed weapons (and 'versatile' weapons being used two-handed)."
95,Coming so close to death has affected your ability to remain focused in combat. You must make a DC 10 Con saving throw before casting any spell. A failure may cause a wild magic surge. You go back to normal after a long rest.
96,You took nerve damage affecting your ability to move. Moving over 1 feet difficult terrain now costs 3 feet of movement.
97,"You lose a LOT of blood. Your max HP is reduced by half, but is restored by 10% with every long rest."
98,The player’s joints constantly ache.
99,"The blow sends a shockwave through your right side, ruining your liver. You take a -4 to CON saves to resist poison, and when consuming alcohol the CON check is treated as if you had drank twice as much."
100,You have been decapitated. Instant death.

d100,Entry

1,"A bard or minstrel, half dressed and looking over his shoulder."
2,Farmer going to/returning from market with his meager goods.
3,Farmer going to/returning from town with his/her sons.
4,Farmer going to/returning from town with his/her daughters.
5,Girl running away from home.
6,Boy running away to the city.
7,"A lost child, in tears and holding a torn sack."
8,"A troupe of entertainers, led by an overdressed and curious Elf."
9,"Full company of mercenaries, led by a stout, dark bearded Captain."
10,"A small group of mercenaries, dishevelled and sweating."
11,"Minor noble travelling via horse, with servants."
12,"Minor noble going to/returning from hunt, with retinue."
13,"Local bailiff, sheriff or warden, with a suspicious outlook of strangers."
14,"A hunter or poacher, with a huge longbow strapped to their back."
15,"A pair of hunters or poachers, arguing about who is to blame for a missed shot."
16,"Large trading caravan, with accompanying surly guards."
17,"A lone trader/merchant on foot, leading a mule carrying their wares."
18,Lone trader/merchant riding on a horse drawn wagon.
19,Limping bailiff and his badly beaten prisoner.
20,"Escaped prisoner, manacled and carrying a religious icon."
21,"Sheriff and his dogs, out hunting an outlaw."
22,"A boundary warden with a broken bow and empty scabbard, fuming as he walks."
23,"Lone travelling priest, carrying a lit censer with an acrid smell."
24,"Lone travelling cleric, with a faintly glowing mace."
25,"Charismatic priest and retinue of apostles, who are mumbling to each other and won’t make eye contact."
26,"A cleric and a small retinue of acolytes, full of confidence."
27,"A ranger/boundary warder patrol, with a cheerful leader."
28,"A patrol from the local city or town guard, nervous about being out of town."
29,"A foot messenger, with a ducal ring on his hand."
30,A horse messenger wearing a royal tabard and carrying a fine leather satchel.
31,A travelling historian carrying a sack of old stone statues.
32,"A starving beggar, willing to trade information for food."
33,"A group of refugees, telling stories of war and oppression in their homeland."
34,"A wounded soldier, limping along on crutches."
35,A deserting soldier carrying a memento of a fallen friend.
36,"A wandering dog, with a silver collar and name tag."
37,A bear wearing a collar and trailing a frayed rope.
38,"A riderless horse, with bulging saddlebags."
39,"A thrown rider, trying to catch his horse."
40,"A wandering madman, ranting about an invisible creature."
41,"A pair of dwarven prospectors, arguing loudly about where they took a wrong turn."
42,"Halfling cook/chef, out foraging for ingredients."
43,Overturned wagon with injured merchant.
44,"A bored elderly gnome, with a curious mechanical toy."
45,"Fisherman by a riverside, without any fish."
46,Druid planting rows of trees across the road.
47,"A drunk from a nearby tavern, unsteady on his feet."
48,"A partially smashed coffin, with a “corpse” inside which is slowly moving."
49,A dealer of “used magical artefacts”.
50,An elf picking and eating wild berries.
51,"A manic Herbalist, with green smears around his mouth."
52,"Group of robed monks, carrying a lit censer."
53,A squire chasing his drunken master’s horse.
54,"An armoured Dragonborn sitting on a stone, sharpening a sword and sighing."
55,"Farmer with an unmoving mule, laden with fruit."
56,Guarded and chained prisoners digging a ditch.
57,A pair of wagon drivers preparing to race each other.
58,"A tiny Earth Elemental, shifting pebbles from one side of the road to the other."
59,"A group of dancing lights, which keep just ahead of the party."
60,"A drug addict, coming down from their last score."
61,"A harmless ghost, sadly humming an old song."
62,A gnome riding an armoured mastiff.
63,A hawker trying to find his bird.
64,"A grave robber, with mud on his shoes and a dark, wet sack on his back."
65,"A friendly necromancer with several raised skeletons, who offers to share food."
66,A gang of youths from a nearby town.
67,"A gnomish tinker & merchant, offering magical mending."
68,"A Quickling, fleeing from the service of a warlock."
69,"A drunken Hill Giant, asleep and snoring loudly."
70,"A starving hermit, bearing a sword handle without a blade."
71,"A migrating Treant, walking down the middle of the road."
72,"A dead knight’s retinue, returning the body home."
73,"Traveling reeve or magistrate, summoned to a case."
74,"A group of pilgrims, one of which is carrying a small, heavily bound chest."
75,"A backwoods moonshiner, offering free samples of his wares."
76,A surveyor excited about discovering a door into an artificial hillock.
77,"A dripping wet fisherman, climbing up from a riverbank with an angry look."
78,"A girl picking wildflowers, acting as a lookout for local bandits."
79,"A boy swinging a stick like a sword, with a pet dog following."
80,Villagers cutting wood to make bows.
81,"A stone golem with one leg shorter than the other, never walking in a straight line."
82,A pixie telling rude jokes and riddles.
83,"Four villagers burning a pile of corpses, which are emitting a thick purple smoke."
84,A wagoner trying to fix his strangely burned cart.
85,"A contented Halfling, smoking an oddly scented pipe."
86,"A wild-eyed and dishevelled Alchemist, ranting about a breakthrough."
87,"An imp caught in a rabbit trap, screeching loudly."
88,"A lost wagon guard, with scratches on his face."
89,"A seller of genuine, if minor, religious relics."
90,"An old gnome in hat and tattered clothes, rapidly shuffling a deck of cards."
91,"An ebullient Orc, dressed in bright fine silks."
92,"A Green Hag, offering a reward for revenge on those who tricked her."
93,"A wine merchant, asking for directions to the nearby town festival."
94,"A fur trapper, with a live wolverine as a pet."
95,"A sour old grandmother, complaining bitterly about her eldest son."
96,A Hobgoblin out to see the world.
97,"A young man, with a hideous mask magically stuck to his face."
98,"A band of giant hunters, paid to kill a troublesome old Hill Giant."
99,"A charcoal burner, telling stories about haunted trees."
100,"A potion merchant, with a backpack full of ‘alternative’ potions."

d100,Entry

1,"A mysterious man sits in the corner of the bar wearing temple robes. He looks worried. If asked why, he will tell you that he saw an omen this morning that signifies the end of the world."
2,A popular local bard just got done playing on the stage. He is surrounded by beautiful women and is having the time of his life.
3,"A figure sitting in a more shadowy part of the bar. When the players ask about them, they’re given a different name from every person they ask."
4,"Contrary Charlie - a patron who, whenever the players state anything, will either instantly take the opposing view to them, deny what’s being said, or claim that the players are misinformed."
5,"Hesjing, a kobold bard with a strange-looking lute way too big for him, humming a familiar song while tuning it."
6,Mmmjimmy : a long bearded redneck wizard sitting in the corner and chuckling to himself.
7,"Otto the Miserable- a very dour-looking gnome with a sign next to him reading ""make me laugh for 10 gp"". He is immune to Tasha's hideous laughter."
8,"A heavily veiled woman in a very low-cut and tight dress makes eyes at men as they walk by; she is in reality the wife of a local noble looking to catch her philandering husband, who unbeknownst to her is involved in something far different than simple adultery..."
9,"Hoid. A half elf bard who uses a magical flute to animate the smoke from the fireplace to make visuals for his stories. He tells only children stories, fairy tale style that all end in moral lessons (similar to how real life fairy tales do)."
10,Durog: the Half-Orc bard. His singing is notoriously bad.
11,Felsa: A female Tabaxi Ice Wizard that serves as a fence for stolen goods.
12,Htrog: A Firbolg warrior for hire. Loves mead. He is the last of his clan.
13,A beastmaster who keeps his pet owlbear with him at all times. Will feed it whatever food he gets from the inn.
14,A common speaking mimic that wishes to live in human society.
15,An unknown humanoid who snores extremely loudly at certain times in the night. His door is always locked and has “DO NOT DISTURB” painted on it in black letters.
16,A giant rat that speaks common as well as elven. Will buy pieces of cheese from the party for 2-3 gp per piece.
17,A kenku that offers tips for successful adventures for the price of a small amount of food from the party.
18,"Johnny, the local drunk. Of course he's here again, and drunk."
19,"A half orc sitting alone at the bar, drinking from his own large personalised tankard, which reads Ughurv."
20,Three Dragonborn haggling with a human male who is trying to persuade them to buy several gold chains at a table in the corner.
21,"A halfling bard, standing on the end of the bar, singing an operatic aria that has several of the patrons fighting back tears."
22,"An elderly Tabaxi, seated on a threadbare armchair before the fireplace, seemingly lost in a personal reverie."
23,"Two young giggling high elf women sipping red wine, seated at a table, guarded by three bored looking local Lords guardsmen."
24,"A member of the town council sits at the bar. Other patrons keep trying to bring up council business, but the councilman just wants to have some food and a drink in peace."
25,"A limping old woman with a cane, called ""Grandma Maggie"" by everyone. Nobody knows whose grandmother she actually is, they've always called her that. She doesn't hesitate to give out spankings for bad behavior, but she has to brace herself since she's not as stable as she used to be."
26,"A constantly-drunk young man with a fancy sword, who was supposed to be a particular ""Hero of Prophecy"", except that someone else took care of that problem first."
27,A woman in leather armor with a scar across her face. She quietly drinks from a flagon of ale on the far end of the bar. An especially large sword rests on the floor next to her travel sack.
28,"A duck sits at the bar with a flagon of ale and a bowl of stale bread crumbs in front of it. When the inn keep notices you looking quizzically at the duck he says “that’s philbert, Inn security, so watch your P’s and Q’s or he’ll be given ya what’s for!” Philbert looks at you dead in the eyes and lets out a mighty quack with a +10 to intimidate."
29,"A tall, portly man who smells strongly of garlic sits to one side of the bar; he is very interested in any conversations about undead. If engaged in conversation, he introduces himself as Marit Clovenhill, a garlic merchant and part-time vampire hunter."
30,A large fat woman sits on a specially made wooden chair by the fire pit. She is covered head to toe in tattoos.
31,A dwarf fighter (e.g. Orik). He is best friend with the human barkeeper (e.g. Castor). They chat very loud. Whenever they start a sentence they say the name of the person they talk to first (or end the sentence with it). When they don't know the name they use stranger or friend. Apparently the dwarf never gets drunk.
32,A cursed witch. She was transformed into a cat. Still able to talk and to use magic. Comes by everyday for her milk served in a golden bowl with her name on it.
33,"A wiry, elderly man sits at the bar talking to the barkeep. He's asking what needs cleaned or doing as he is taking the next shift soon."
34,"A young, attractive couple who are looking for a 3rd person to take up to their room to have some bedroom fun."
35,A man who drank far too much and vomited all over himself. The barkeep is trying to get him to leave but he has passed out.
36,A cigar smoking old woman who asks for her food extra cooked. She refuses any meal that isn't blackened and burnt completely.
37,A doll maker who is always tinkering with his creepy dolls.
38,"Two old married men, trying to get away from their nagging wives by coming to the inn and playing checkers."
39,"A beautiful young woman in a slightly worn-out green dress. She is not interested in any of the men who have approached her, but she seems to have been watching the inn waitress with a coy smile."
40,A fat noble lady who complains loudly but drinks heavily and soon is undressing herself while singing.
41,A pair of twin halflings stand on a bench playing the piano in the corner together.
42,A medium height figure stumbles into the pub while wearing a long green cloak. It’s actually two halflings one on the others shoulders.
43,A large silent figure walking into the inn. On her back is a wicker basket filled with rusted weapons that give off a strong magical aura.
44,Two dwarves arguing over who has the more luscious beard.
45,A traveling perfume salesman.
46,Fat John. Sits in the same corner at the same table. Has been there for years. Never seems to not be there. But somehow he knows everybody and everything going on in town. Secretly he’s a divination sorcerer with subtle spells that allow him to scry on anyone within a few mile radius.
47,"An elderly paladin is deep in thought in the back of the tavern. If asked, he feels he is too old to stop a Lich that he has been chasing for years."
48,"5 whatever race or sex you walk into the bar. They are bedecked in flashy garb (that doesn't quite fit right, armor and gear. One of them is boasting about there great deeds. It starts to sound more and more outlandish if someone actually decides to listen. In reality they are highway bandit's that just ambushed and looted actual adventurers. They can find the bodies about 4 miles along the road out of the town, buried in very shallow graves."
49,"A young man in the clothing of a lesser noble, quite visibly drunk, is being dragged out of the inn by a woman in similar garb, presumably his wife."
50,"A halfling dances on a table, slips and falls under it. Some patrons who had been observing the performance gasp when the little man is not under the table, but his sudden and triumphant 'Ta-Dah' from the other side of the room merits some applause."
51,"Two burly looking men, their uniforms identifying them as local guardsmen, chug from large tankards of the local brew. The winner falls over backwards off his stool, prompting raucous laughter from those around him."
52,"An elvish woman in clothes much too exquisite for an establishment of this sort sits alone at her table, sipping from a glass of wine with haughty countenance and incessantly playing with a pendant hanging from her neck."
53,An aged priest with a week's beard and patched robes staring mournfully at a glass of water.
54,A gnome and a Goliath are arm wrestling. The gnome beats the Goliath so the Goliath takes out a mechanical contraption that freezes the gnome.
55,"A man in bright clothing stands in the corner. He's laughing and talking to seemingly no one. When approached he stops talking and just stared intently, waiting for something."
56,"Harth Stonebrew - An ent as ""houseplant""/bard."
57,A red dragonborn sits at the bar in fine clothing and is ordering strange drinks. If talked to enough (and if he's drunk a bit too much) he'll tell you he's on a quest to prove himself to the clan.
58,"A group of Kobolds carry around a dwarf dressed like a dragon. They adore him and answer to his every command. He lies to the 3 Kobolds and will pay them in scraps. If people talk to him and try to help the kobolds, the dwarf will pay you off to shut up and let it happen"
59,A group of rowdy dwarves... they are obsessively talking about the local sports team (Go Sports!)
60,A scarecrow dressed like a ranger in all black in the darkest corner of the inn. The barkeep keeps a tally of how many people try to talk to him to get a quest or attack it when it doesn't respond.
61,"A young-looking elf woman, who looks almost like a drow, but not quite. She is dark-haired, and has black eyes. When she moves, her cloak shifts aside to reveal that her arm ends just above the elbow. She seems to prefer the shadows, and drinks a dark ale most consider too bitter for their tongues. The innkeeper recommends that, should you approach her, you should definitely not call her a drow."
62,"A slime. A humanoid slime. Looks vaguely female. Is trying very hard to get drunk, but its body processes alcohol too fast to get more than buzzed. Has a lot of gold that it is siting on. The bar tender is starting to get a bit desperate to find a brew that with actually inebriate the slime, even for a moment. It has threatened to buy the whole stock of alcohol and try to down it all at once by flooding the basement and jumping in."
63,"A goblin stripper named Grelka. Grelka tries to steal bedrolls from people she dances for because the definition of ""take them to bed"" got muddled up with ""take their bed""."
64,"A cheesemaker, trying to make a business deal with the owner of the bar. He offers a free sample and if the player tries it, DC 15 Constitution check to see if the player gets food poisoning"
65,"A shady man who comes in, orders 20 bottles of hard liquor, then pours them all into an Erlenmeyer flask and lights a fire under it. He proceeds to fill five of the bottles with the substance, stuffs napkins in them, and walks out."
66,"You see a party of visually shaken dwarfs silently drowning their sorrow in a corner of the pub. Chatting with them reveals that they were part of a trade caravan visiting an obscure dwarven outpost, only to discover nothing but a deserted fortress of horribly mutilated corpses."
67,Three gnomes in a trench coat.
68,A frantic looking young wizard pours over countless tomes and scrolls. She seems to be searching for a particular spell and when questioned she only mentions that her mentor is going to kill her if she can't locate which plane that town went soon.
69,"A patriot veteran of a previous war in the land. Having lost his leg in the war, he now spends most his time at the bar telling war stories, or drunkenly singing the national anthem or some obscure war ballad. Just don't bring up any battles the nation lost though..."
70,"A jolly half elf named Craig who looks a lot like Patton Oswald. Craig has a list of jobs, personal ads, missed connections etc. Whenever you ask about work in the Inn, they suggest you check out The list that Craig has made."
71,"A mother and father, and their three kids. Their house burned down in a mysterious fire and they are sheltering at the inn until they can find somewhere else to stay."
72,A spellcaster who lost their apprenticeship. The spellcaster was a reliable student but was the victim of a covetous rival who sabotaged their work and spread rumors. The spellcaster doesn't have the motivation to fight back since the rival was better liked and no one wanted to hear the other side of the story.
73,A local merchant who scored a big foreign contract. S/he and team are excited about hiring more workers and boosting the local economy and the town/city's reputation.
74,An inquisitor tracking a heinous criminal. The trail has gone cold and the inquisitor is looking for rumors or sightings.
75,A horse racing team bringing horses to a grand prix in a city nearby. The coach and an experienced racer are encouraging a nervous first-timer who is already getting prerace jitters.
76,"Gundrick Aleseeker, a brewer of great renown on a test to try ever beer produced in the land. He sits at a side table with a set of the smallest glasses the inn have, studiously sniffing and tasty one then writing notes for five minutes. Once he has tried each if their are no more inns in town he will order his favourite and sip it contently. Any who approach him before this will be bluntly asked to leave but after finished tasting he is an avid conversationalist."
77,"Blart is a bugbear who comes from a far away tribe, that collapsed do to lack of food. Despite the deaths of his people, Blart is a barbarian of the ancestral guardian path, and the deaths of his people empower him. He speaks in a loud squeaky voice, and has strange habit of drinking black tar."
78,"Wendel Waterweary is a normal human merchant. She is in charge of the towns trade with other towns, and frequently leads the trade mission. When not on the job, she can be found in the Inn hosting games where players use strange polyhedral dice and their imaginations to simulate great adventures."
79,"Kaza Arbiter, also known by his alias ""Luke Warm"" is a human artificer and criminal. Using transmutation magic, he disguises himself and his inventions (albeit mostly stolen) to become mundane items when not in use. An astute person might be able to recognize Kaza by his short stature, young appearance, and abnormal love of tea. When not on heists, he disguises himself as ""Luke Warm"", an everyday scholar studying chemistry."
80,"A dwarf, and and elf all enter together, order a drink at the bar and go upstairs. When they come down shortly after, and it seems as though they have exchanged clothes."
81,"Three old geezers sat around a table for four. They won't let anyone take the empty forth stool. The barkeep steps in if anyone objects. They have a tab even if such a facility isn't available to all. They never seem to order but the drinks arrive at a steady rate. Always 4. One each and one in front of the empty stool. When they finish, the spare is tipped into a nearby plant, out of the window or otherwise disposed of. Except the last of the evening when one of the old men will sometimes pass it to a young'un sat nearby as they all get up to leave."
82,"A middle aged man and his wife. Will hustle her out of the bar at the first sign of trouble, impropriety or bad language muttering grossly. She seems supremely unconcerned (or even interested in anything salacious!)."
83,An unkempt elven apprentice mage who will enthusiastically discuss magic theory and categorisation of cantrips with (Or more accurately at) anyone not fast or savvy enough to get away. Not particularly interested in whether you have magical knowledge and even gets disturbed if you disagree or try to change topic.
84,A Goliath in a dark cloak desperately trying to hide how tall he is by slouching as much as he can.
85,A human male with an eyepatch and one arm who rents the largest room in the inn and leaves.
86,An elderly man covered in old tribal tattoos chatting with three young men.
87,"Ambros, a grey bearded dwarf with nasty scars over his face, hes known for his knowledge of beer, mead and ale."
88,"A trickster mage named Elondur, always surprises his fellow guests with sleight of hand tricks. Nobody knows if theres actual magic involved."
89,"Welka - An extremely beautiful woman, standing a full 6'6"", with guinea-gold locks and an ice-blue greataxe. She seems to be waiting for someone, and looks up whenever a man walks in the room."
90,"Gustav Ironboots- A grizzled Dwarf guard captain, with a kindly eye and a friendly word from half of the patrons. Gustav has been a guardsman in the area for nearly 150 years, and most people know him well. Has a relaxed but careful attitude."
91,"Gladiolas Doombaker- A high elf with odd magical facial brands and the look of an archmage offers succulent pastries to the party. A former Archvillain, Gladiolas was defeated by a party who used powerful divine magic to switch his focus from the arcane to the oven. He now prepares incredibly delicious breads, muffins, and other doughy goodies."
92,"Darlan the Human - a swarthy, golden-eyed man with dark hair drinks alone at the bar. With very little provocation, he will inform you he isn't a Tiefling, and that he was just born looking a little different. His grandfather was a priest of the sun god. There is no demonic line in his family, thank you very much."
93,"Curtis and Lissandra- a younger-middle aged couple are holding hands at one of the tables. He is a wizard, and she is a paladin. They have left their children with the neighbor's daughter and are having a quiet dinner together."
94,"Two rather drunk clerics are performing a raucous and somewhat raunchy augury, asking about people in the room to shouts of laughter from onlookers."
95,"Palwise the Invisible Hand - A halfling sits on a stool, enjoying what looks like lemonade. His arms and hands are completely and permanently invisible, the result of a misspoken wish. He sometimes wears long sleeves and gloves, but not today."
96,"A group of sopping wet adventurers come slouching in the tavern, leaving muddy footprints. It is a clear day outside. If asked, the fighter smacks the wizard upside the head and mutters about a cooling spell gone wrong."
97,"A man (clearly royalty or nobility in disguise) is chatting amiably with those around him, while his guard, also in disguise and looking long-suffering, sits close by. The locals can tell, but are taking it in good grace."
98,"Nepason Burke - An Eldritch knight and half of Burke and Habbes, a famous adventuring duo from twenty years ago. Eprim Habbes is now a Lord and a General. Burke has chosen the quiet life, and seems content with his choice."
99,A very drunk doppelganger. His disguise is slipping as he drinks.
100,"Garick Jenerick - An odd old man who approaches different parties and implores their aid. Very wealthy and rather senile, he has a gruesome 'hobby' collecting body parts from various monsters- goblin ears, rat tails, wolf pelts, etc. What he does with them no one knows."

d100,Entry

1,"The caster is teleported to a plane of Fire Elementals inside a heavy iron cage. An incredibly brilliant Fire Elemental has harnessed the power to 'trap' teleporters in their tracks and intend on using their arcane energy to power the device. If the caster is able to kill the fire elemental, they are instantly transported to their intended location."
2,"Teleport is to successful place, but 500 ft up..."
3,"Another party has selected the same destination, causing your party to be sent to a pocket dimension that resembles a bad waiting room (out of date parchments in the table, substandard bards playing poor representations of popular songs, etc) for 1d4 hours while the magic’s realign so you can finish your journey."
4,You are teleported into a sealed crate that appears to you to be moving....
5,"The caster accidentally teleports the party into the middle of an ocean, but shortly brings them back to the original spot."
6,The circle's magic was not strong enough to send the party to their destination so the party arrives about half way in between their starting point and their destination.
7,Caster couldn't focus to cast the spell so instead he cause an explosion that injuries the party.
8,Two PCs become partly fused together.
9,A flash of lightning strikes the player intending to teleport dealing 3d6 damage.
10,The party is teleported a few miles from each other.
11,The party is teleported to a narrow alleyway where bandits wait ready to attack and rob them.
12,"The universe moves, but the caster is kept in one place. The effect is indistinguishable from successful teleportation unless someone else was teleporting at the same time."
13,"The caster is transported to another dimension where they are forced to fight progressively more difficult opponents in an arena. When they are eventually killed, their teleportation is completed and they revert to their previous age."
14,"The same as above, but with them living out a vividly-described happy life with a family."
15,Two people teleport. They exchange eye colors. Maybe just one eye changes.
16,"A person looks physically younger. Apparently, they were clones, not teleported, and all of their dying cells were replaced with new ones. (The soul is fine though)."
17,Two people teleport. Their souls switch bodies.
18,A person's hair doesn't teleport! They're bald after teleporting (including facial hair).
19,"A person teleports 'slowly'...meaning the visibly see the astral sea, hell, celestia and other planes as they zip through them. It takes a full second but feels like hours."
20,The caster is briefly teleported to a treasure vault filled to the brim with gold and valuables. They are returned to their original position shortly after.
21,The party’s minds are randomly switched.
22,A random creature has been picked up while the magic trail travels. Roll 1D6 to find: 1. An ancient green dragon. 2. A beholder. 3. A frost giant. 4. A beholder zombie. 5. A blood hawk. 6. A giant frog.
23,Every part of the person's body arrives at the destination... except for their skin which comes several minutes later
24,They stay in the same place and go through time instead of space!
25,The teleport transports only their consciousness to the new place and their spirit must find its way back to its comatose body
26,Timespace anomaly - person arrives 2x larger than before but moves and acts 2x slower
27,"Split exactly down the middle, only one half of the body is transported. Both parts of the body are still alive and function as normal, connected mistically to each other, but split."
28,Teleportee arrives at the right place but the wrong time - either past or future.
29,Teleportee loses a kidney.
30,"At the starting location, everyone hears a loud bang; at the destination, everyone hears a whimper."
31,Hair length increases by a year's growth.
32,Fingernails and toenails increase by a year's growth. Penalty to dexterity until trimmed.
33,"All equipment, including the contents of pouches, is scattered on the ground around the destination."
34,"There is a brief delay between leaving and arriving, while an autonomous voice intones 'your call may be monitored for quality assurance purposes.'"
35,"There is a long delay between leaving and arriving, while hold music plays. Everyone is hungry by the time they arrive."
36,Everyone sneezes.
37,Their ass is now in the front of them.
38,Their clothes and belongings teleport ten feet away. You're naked as the day you were born.
39,"Roll 1d4, you are now a different race temporarily for that many days."
40,You're missing your left arm. It's nearby and slowly creeping back to you.
41,A worm hole representative appears and congratulates the party on being the 1 billionth customers. It gives you a coupon and 200 GP.
42,"Roll 1d4 and an evil twin of yourself appears that lasts that many days, but you're both unable to kill your own copy."
43,"They leave a ghostly version of themselves behind that continuously repeats their actions from the minute before they teleported, over and over again."
44,"The caster gets teleported into a novice conjuror's summoning circle. Not knowing that his summoning failed (which it did), the novice demands the completion of a trivial task from the caster."
45,All of the casters gear and clothes are teleported in a different place nearby.
46,A very bright flash light at the end of the teleportation is blinding the group for 1d4 hours.
47,The teleportation ends 1d20 feet over the ground. Caster/Group needs to succeed saving throw or take fall damage.
48,Caster/Group feels a sudden illness. They throw up immediatly.
49,"The teleportation has some stopovers on random locations for 1d4 seconds each. The visit e.g. a battlefield, a dragon's nest, a feast of a king, a brothel, the middle of an ocean, ... before they reach their final destination."
50,"The teleport was successful, but you also brought some interesting things with you. [1d4] 1) A pile of wood shavings 2) 1 healing potion, cracked and leaking 3) a mirror that doesn't show any sentient creature 4) Bread."
51,The object or person teleporting doesn't appear at the destination and in place a monster does.
52,"The caster teleports to their intended destination, but with their left and right arm switched."
53,"They teleport to the right place but not oriented to the ground correctly (upside down, horizontal,etc), causing them to fall on their backs, stomachs, or heads."
54,"Teleportee accidentally moves through time as well as space, heading 21-1D20 hours into the future as well."
55,The teleported player or players are teleported into the stomach of an enormous creature (whale). There is a half broken ship with a skeleton of an old man and a wood puppet. In the ship is a crystal that changed the teleportation so they can teleport away once they have the stone. It crumbles as they teleport away.
56,"The teleportation goes to the right place, although the timespace has been flawed. They encounter themself, but the other party is the polar opposite of the players and will try to kill them."
57,A singularity brings a house golem into being under your control. It will protect any camp or domicile you tell it to.
58,An inter dimensional tavern and inn appears next to you. It will last for 7 days then teleport elsewhere.
59,"Five hundred doves appear with you and fly away as a nearby magician yells, 'Ta-da!!!'"
60,One random item they possess becomes cursed.
61,A large section of a stone tower apparates next to them making it the tallest structure in the area. There's 300 GP inside and this seems like as good a place as any to build a fort or keep.
62,One random item they possess becomes awakened.
63,Thirty floating ethereal sheep appear. They can be sold to a nearby farmer who will shear them and the bolts of cloth are known for making wearers more stealthy.
64,"A tiny Puckish man hitched a ride out of his prison dimension. His name is hard to pronounce, but he thanks you for freeing him. As he leaves you see a distant planet explode. You hope it's unrelated...but it's probably not."
65,"The party asks itself, 'What is a cassowary? And why is there one in front of me?' Expect piercing damage."
66,Party takes 1d4 damage and are covered with infernal sigils.
67,Party gains 1d4 health and are covered with glowing angelic sigils.
68,"Party is covered in blue flames for 10 minutes, it doesn't deal any damage to them though."
69,"The PC's all catch a vision of a great bulbous eye and the words: 'Ever.... Watching' followed by a chill down their spines. The image does not fade right away, if they close their eyes for the next few ours they can still see it like an afterimage."
70,"An ambitious demon takes advantage of the disturbance in space time and appears at the intended destination of the teleport, but otherwise the teleport fails to move anything."
71,"The caster is teleported into an empty seat at a warm, cozy inn. A door remains closed on the far side of the room, and there are no windows to be seen. Soft, upbeat music is constantly being played by a talented bard in one of the room’s corners, which somehow gives the caster a feeling of home. There are always enough patrons that the inn feels lively but not uncomfortably crowded, and waiters and waitresses bustle around providing delicious drinks and hearty meals. An innkeeper immediately rushes over to the caster and informs them that their room has been covered, as well as all their food and drink. As the inn’s fare fills the caster’s belly and the patrons begin to socialize with them, the caster becomes less and less inclined to leave. In actuality, the inn and all its original occupants are part of a small sentient pocket dimension that feeds off of feelings of contentment and satisfaction. The pocket dimension snatched the caster up in the hopes of keeping them inside it as a permanent source of sustenance. Exiting through the far door instantly transports the caster to their intended destination."
72,"The caster appears 30 feet above where they initially teleported, pressed flat against the palm of a massive ethereal hand. The hand quickly and viscously swats the caster down to the ground, causing them to take 2d6 falling damage and 2d6 bludgeoning damage. The hand then tauntingly waves it’s index finger back and forth before popping out of existence. Any attempts in the general area to teleport within 10 minutes of the original casting causes this mishap to repeat, targeting the new caster."
73,The caster randomly teleports between the two locations for the next minute. Any movement relative to the point of casting and the point of impact is translated across teleportations.
74,"The spell appears to fail, when in actuality the effects of the spell are delayed by one minute. An evil clone of the caster appears at the intended point of teleportation and does its best to cause all manner of mischief and mayhem, though it does nothing that would be very harmful or potentially deadly to itself. After one minute, the clone pops out of existence at the same time the caster is teleported to the position of the clone."
75,"A violent, fiery explosion occurs at the point of casting as the caster rapidly shoots into the sky, breaking every surface in their way. The caster disappears into the clouds and descends to their intended point of teleportation one turn later, breaking all surfaces along the way and causing a similar explosion to the first at their point of impact. All creatures within a 15 foot radius Sphere other than the caster must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes 5d6 fire and 5d6 thunder damage on a failed save, or have as much on a successful one. If a creature fails the saving throw by more than 5, they are deafened for one minute and knocked prone."
76,"Your skeleton arrives at the spot, but not you. You've stayed behind and slowly collapse into a bunch of folding flesh. Have a nice day."
77,"You point at a spot and cast teleport. You find that you are standing on a piece of dust several hundred feet across. The spell had miniaturized you, in order to appear at that location. The dust is slowly drifting away on a slight breeze and it's taking you with it."
78,They arrive just in time to watch future versions of themselves create a paradox and explode. Salvage what you can from the pink goo.
79,A random party member secretly changes alignment for 1d4 days.
80,A random party member becomes ethereal for 1d4 hours.
81,The group creates a flux where they alternate between two places at once. A coin flip determines if they deal or take damage. Lasts one day.
82,Where are my feet?' The party falls over in agony missing a vital part of their anatomy. The feet reappear soon after. The party vows to take better care of their feet.
83,Passing through a Quantum Leap they no longer look like themselves. The change of identity persists until they finish a quest.
84,An exact copy of the Taj Mahal appears next to them. Each PC has a key in their hand to a different door in the complex. The last key opens a crypt filled with dead bodies in various states of decay.
85,"You come to in a strange land. Free of conflict, strife, and famine. The alien populace welcomes you with open arms. You live a beautiful life and live to see your children and grandchildren grow up happy and healthy after intermarrying with the aliens. In your twilight years you sit on your deathbed along with your fellow PCs. Your mournful spouses kiss you goodbye as you close your eyes one last time...then you arrive at your destination as if none of it ever happened."
86,"Animated, talking copies of your skeletons appear next to you. Flip a coin to determine if they are friendly or hostile... and your mom said you couldn't make new friends."
87,"The party’s bodies and equipment are left behind but their souls make it to the destination, their bodies become dormant until their souls (now in ghosts form) can make it back to their bodies."
88,"The party’s bodies and equipment make it to the destination but their souls are left behind, their bodies become dormant until their souls (now in ghosts form) can make it back to their bodies."
89,"The party appears unharmed but surrounded by 2,000 pancakes. No syrup or butter though."
90,They appear in a crop circle next to a very bewildered farmer. He sells corn for 2 silver coins per bushel.
91,They are possessed by mischievous spirits. Have the players lip sync Harry Belafonte's 'Day-O' or they stay possessed for another 1d4 days.
92,Everyone becomes under the effect of the gaseous form spell.
93,Water seeps out of all of their orifices in steady trickles (Advantage on escaping grapple but Disadvantage on Stealth & Perception checks).
94,"You arrive where you wanted, but 5 years too late."
95,"Rather than teleport over a distance, everyone involved instead teleported 1 hour forward/backward in time for every 10 feet the teleport would take them."
96,"The caster put a bit too much accent on the last syllable, and the party is scattered around the world."
97,"The party is successfully teleported... but exact copies of them are left at the origin site, wondering why the spell didn't work. The party now exists in duplicate in different places."
98,"You teleport to another dimension. This dimension is limbo, but in the middle of no where, as you look around you, you see barren waste land as far as the eye can see. The ground is blackish brown, and the dirt is cracked and dried up. For the next few minutes, you hear deceased relatives, and deceased friends call out to you. They yell for your help. You can see where they they are, floating as specters/ghosts. But as soon as you attempt to approach them, you feel you soul and body get hot as your dragged away and teleported to the original desired location. No time has passed since. Any party members teleporting with you did not feel this effect, only the one who cast the teleport spell experienced it. Roll a d20. If the result is Even, nothing happens. If the Result is Odd, then for the next 4 hours the PC will feel a heavy sadness. During these 4 hours, the PC can not make intimidate checks nor persuasion checks, if they attempt to, they are automatic fails."
99,You each end up with a familiar that guided you out of a pocket dimension while in transit.
100,Sulphuric gas and an overwhelming scent of brimstone fill the air.

d100,Entry

1,Duke _______ Has pulled out all of his business contracts from the port.
2,The head of House ________ was assassinated.
3,They are on the brink of war with a country.
4,Duchess ______ has been having a dalliance with another woman.
5,A Baron's son has gone missing.
6,"________ has a secret double life, but no one knows what he does."
7,________ is looking for a new heir after their unfortunate accident.
8,________ is still dealing with their little monster problem. When will they get it under control?
9,"The ball's most eligible bachelor/bachelorette is looking for his next partner tonight, but no one knows what they're into."
10,The baroness and the baron are cheating on each other and everyone knows but them.
11,________ made some bad deals and has trouble with some thugs.
12,"Lord ________ has apparently recently renovated, expanding his cellar by a lot."
13,Green lights have been flashing through the baron’s son’s window. The baron is of course denying this.
14,The heir of Lord and Lady ________ isn't their true born child but was adopted.
15,A faction of nobles are plotting to convince the King/Queen to change succession rules because the current heir apparent wants to open up the kingdom's borders to more foreign commerce and cultural exchange. They are planning to frame the heir apparent for a murder.
16,"Lord ________ has a hobby of testing his allies with poetry contests, but it's actually code."
17,Lord ______ holds late night parties in his basement theater where an illusionist creates shockingly explicit pornography for the audience.
18,Baron ——- has a bit of a gambling problem.
19,Baroness ———- has had several of her heirloom jewelry suddenly gone missing.
20,The King’s men are still looking for his bastard son and the reward has gotten quite large.
21,"No word has been heard from the city of ______, perhaps the King finally had enough."
22,Lord ______’s secret is out and the church is said to be charging heresy.
23,The country’s gold supply is just debt to every other nation
24,It seems the larger cities are preparing for the worst regarding _____’s rebellion.
25,"After the King’s personal guard betrayed him, he’s been paranoid and weary of even leaving the castle."
26,"The merchants guild seemed to have hired a large amount of cutthroats and mercenaries, they must be looking to protect something quite valuable."
27,"The last last lord who betrayed the church went missing, let’s hope Lord _______ is wiser."
28,The lord’s son is quite taken with one of the kitchen maidens— he won’t even entertain the idea of other suitors.
29,One of the lady’s tastes in the bedroom— well let’s just say that they are rather unorthodox and peculiar.
30,I heard that he has has lost his entire family fortune at the race track.
31,"The family was on the brink of destitution, but suddenly came into a windfall out of nowhere. Sounds suspicious if you ask me."
32,I heard she is redecorating her home for the third time this year!
33,Did you hear? Her head housekeeper was caught replacing the family jewels with glass replicas one by one. It’s so hard to find good help these days.
34,The new stallion today they spent ungodly amounts of money to purchase hasn’t been performing very well in practice races.
35,I heard that the daughters of the lord and lady sneak out to the forest at night to dance in the woods with the locals coven. So unsavory.
36,I heard that his prize hunting dog has gone missing and he is inconsolable. The dog’s better off living in the woods than with him as a master if you ask me...
37,The Duke's second son has begot a bastard on the local soap-maker's daughter.
38,The vintage being served is actually a counterfeit wine being served in good bottle. I guess Lord ____ is not as wealthy as one would believe.
39,"Earl ____ has been seen in the company of the local priest, going to confession more often since his wife passed."
40,"The bard that is playing tonight has been having an affair with the Lady ___, its probably the only reason why she got the job."
41,"If you pay the right servant, they can get you into a back room card game that all the richest nobles play in."
42,Marquis _____ was seen leaving the privy not moment after Lady ____.
43,"A large platoon of King's Guard have been spotted outside the ball, who are they waiting for?"
44,The head of the _____ household was found in bed with a member of their own family.
45,The oldest son of Lord ___ was crippled during a hunting accident. Some say it was not an accident.
46,"Lady ____ is the sole reason why silk is simply unobtainable in the city these days. Look at her dress, its must be a ton of silk alone."
47,The Bishop was found in a compromising position with a lady of the night during one of his alms missions.
48,"There is a schism within the Church of ____, one of their high ranking clergy nailed a large stack of proclamations to the church door."
49,"Duke ____'s hair is completely false, he gets it enchanted by the temple each week."
50,"King ____ will be attending the next noble ball, he is looking for a new wife after the tragic loss of Queen ____ last year."
51,"Queen ____ has been imprisoned for infidelity against the king, the validity of his heirs is now being questioned."
52,Duchess ____ has allegedly been seen performing rituals deep in the woods at the full moon.
53,"Lord ____ recently donated the vast majority of his wealth to the poor, an rather odd change of heart for the old miser."
54,"The servants of ______ swear that the master of the house is the same as he used to be, the lady of the house disagrees."
55,"The centerpiece of the feast was especially hunted for its magical properties, rumours say it is directly linked to the gods."
56,"The Lord ____ just intentionally tripped his rival ____ on the ballroom floor to embarrass him, they should just dual instead of these pathetic displays."
57,"The witch ____ is here, watching each of her children infiltrate the nobility. Be on your guard."
58,The hors d'oeuvres have been spiked with truth potion.
59,The entertainment are actually convicts who will be killed at the end of the night if they don't perform well.
60,Lord and Lady ____ have been inviting young couples back to their manor house after each ball.
61,The hosts of the ball have cheaped out on food; the “high quality” meat being served was purchased for cheap in bulk.
62,"There are ‘genuine’ adventures at the ball! An actual, ‘for reals’, adventuring group!"
63,A minor noble recently divorced his wife and married her sister.
64,"The party did a cool thing they did, a cool thing they did and a wildly awesome thing they didn't do."
65,"The party did a stupid thing they did, a stupid thing they did and an absurdly stupid thing they didn't do."
66,"A local noble has allegedly been giving money to a woman who lives just outside of town...and to make a stranger situation, the woman in question is almost never seen outside her home."
67,"I hear House ______ has recently discovered a new adamantine vein in their mine, That is the fourth lucky break they have had in a short period of time."
68,"Baron ____ has had to decline attending ANOTHER ball, I fear he may have taken ill."
69,The former viscount ______ is set to be executed next week. Bloody fool is still claiming he's innocent.
70,Guests are saying one of the nobles is actually a succubus/incubus in disguise. 20% Chance for it to be true.
71,"They’re denying it, but I heard the mayor’s son had to be dragged to the local medic the other night after they found him passed out in an opium den."
72,"A nasty communicable disease is spreading through the poorest areas of the city, though the baron is denying its existence."
73,The baron is himself displaying symptoms of the communicable disease.
74,The Merchants Guild are unhappy with how the baron is ruling the city and trying to bribe officials and hire mercenaries for a coup.
75,"An infamous assassin whom nobody knows what they look like are at the ball, with a contract to kill______."
76,The daughter of Duke ___ is set to wed the son of Baron ___! The couple seems happy enough with the arrangement but the Duke is not happy at all. A pairing between houses of such disparate rank is unheard of. Some say there must be a sort of leverage involved.
77,"Did you hear? One of Lord ____’s housecleaners claims to just be some simple lady, but after saving the family from feared bandits? Skill like that doesn’t appear out of nowhere."
78,Baron ____ has been seen visiting the local orphanage more and more often. Many are beginning to think he has some bastard kids in there.
79,"After that assasination attempt on the prince, King ____ has put the city of ____ on lockdown to find the perpetrator. I’ve heard that prince also wants to find the assassin, but I don’t believe he wants them dead."
80,"You remember Lord ____’s middle son, yes? The thin, sickly looking one? Well, word has been going around that he just won the biggest archery competition of the summer! I won’t believe he won by skill until I see it for myself."
81,"The House of ______ has been buying an inordinate amount of weapons, preserved food and holy water. No one knows why."
82,"There has been talk that Lord ____ and Lady ___’s child might not be their real child, but a changeling. Doesn’t help that mercenaries and scholars have been seen exiting their homes."
83,The respectable noble family of ____ has not allowed one of their daughters out of the house in months. Some say they can hear screaming in one of the spires of their home.
84,The _____ family has been looking for their missing child for months. Most speculate they ran away with a secret lover.
85,That son of _____ is such a smart boy! He truly is a lover of knowledge. But I could have sworn I saw him close by the rumored area where a mysterious cult may be.
86,Lady ___ has been looking quite excited these past few months. Perhaps she’s pregnant?
87,"My father in _____ has just informed me that important buildings and sectors of the city have been set on fire. With tensions rising, I fear this is a call for war."
88,The Lord’s son was suddenly kicked from prestigious magic school. The family refuses to talk about it.
89,"__________ has a country house by the river. They disappear there from time to time, but no one knows why."
90,__________ is rumored to have taken a special interest in a child who lives in old town. A courier was sent there last week bearing a package.
91,__________ arrived late one evening to court. Anyone’s whose anyone had never heard of them before. But the Queens vizier seem to know them. How did they become such a staple of our circles?
92,Isn’t it strange that Baron _________ disappeared so suddenly; only to be replaced by an estranged and remote daughter from some tryst long ago?
93,You know how servants whisper; just last week I overheard our governess gossiping about the Queen. How does a barren woman have so many children???
94,"The new scullery boy has been found sneaking into the lord's study late at night. He's no doubt a thief, but the lord always sees the best in people, and either doesn't believe it, or is willing to turn a blind eye. Potential Twist: The lord is having an affair with the scullery boy, and is more than happy to let folks think it's merely a case of petty thievery."
95,Baron/ Baroness _______ is suddenly desperate to raise or borrow gold. No one knows why.
96,Servants walked in on the eldest daughter of Lord ____ while she was alone in a side room talking with the son of a rich merchant. Her family is furious and her betrothal to Baron _____’s son might be at risk.
97,I hear Baron ________ has recently discovered his son is a draconic sorcerer. That means someone in his lineage has lain with a dragon! How scandalous.
98,The house of Marquis ________ is on the brink of war with House _________.
99,Baron _______'s merchant fleet was sunk by an off-season storm! He's ruined.
100,They say the youngest daughter of Lord _______ has run off with a bard.

d100,Entry

1,"Occasionally trips over his beard, then angrily insists that that is an attractive feature back under the mountain."
2,"Stingy... except around women, whom he is greatly concerned with impressing."
3,"Wields a hammer because his father was a smith. And while that profession was not for him, he still honors his family every time he goes to battle"
4,Obsessed with finding rubies. Will take a hand full of rubies over a chest full of gold any day.
5,Secretly hates beer as it's too bitter. Drinks rum instead.
6,"Is very attracted to halflings, vastly more so then to other dwarves. But they'd never let their parents find out."
7,Constantly 'chalks up' their hands with dirt or dust from rocks to better their grip on their weapon
8,"Scared of goblins, but does everything humanly possibly to deny this."
9,Believes he was chosen by Moradin to do something important. But has no idea what it is...for now.
10,Can't let a dare or slight against his courage slip by him. Always bites when someone calls him a chicken.
11,"Likes to hum 'Heigh Ho' to themselves. When asked why, they fervently deny it saying, 'I was not.'"
12,Has an obsession with staking claims throughout the adventure in search of ore and gems. Has personalized metal spikes.
13,Actually likes elves ever as one saved them as a child.
14,"Is very tall for a dwarf (5'0') and proudly boasts about this often, even when in the company of races much taller than him."
15,Likes to keep/store spare tools in his beard.
16,"Decorates their equipment with menacing spikes. While they look rusty, they are of the highest quality craftsmanship."
17,Doesn't actually drink alcohol. They just case prestidigitation on water to look and taste like alcohol.
18,Convinced that a pick-axe is the best melee weapon.
19,"Obviously dyes their beard. There are streaks of gray that have been colored to match their original shade, but don't exactly match. Vigorously denies that they dye their beard."
20,Dislikes wearing shoes and prefers to be closer to the earth. Often tries to show off his feet calluses.
21,Always picks their teeth with a sliver of a stone from their home.
22,"Tends to be more curious when encountering monstrous humanoids (Orcs, Goblins, etc.) rather than outright hostile."
23,"Has ornate metal bands adorning their beard, of brass and bronze, decorated to pay homage to the adventures they have been on so far."
24,"Always carries around a small personal cask of ale for 'emergencies'. Is concerned with filling it immediately after it empties, holds 4 servings of ale."
25,Talks constantly of their family's prowess at brewing ale.
26,Is usually snacking on some form of hard cheese or salted meat.
27,"Grimmaces and complains when they are outside for too long and haven't been in a cave, mine, or other underground area for longer than 1d8 days."
28,Keeps a record of the giants they've killed with notches in their axe or war hammer handle. (Can be any other type of creature.)
29,"She/he can't understand complicated plans, or they refuse to try. It should be plain and simple, otherwise she/he drools or something of the like. The axe goes in the head of the evil guy and the hammer breaks his bones. What else do you need?"
30,Builds tiny warforged servants (limited-sentience). Calls them his babies.
31,Incredibly and uncomfortably affectionate when drunk.
32,Refuses to wear or wield non-dwarven arms and armor
33,Has a metal lower jaw after an unfortunate forge accident. As a result their mouth is always slightly open and the tinniest bit crooked... just enough to irritate the obsessive compulsive.
34,"He cannot grow a beard, only a moustache."
35,"Can only grow a beard, no mustache."
36,Carries around a small etching of his/her beautiful/handsome (subjective) wife/husband. Likes to show it off to everyone at every opportunity they get. Reacts badly to anyone who doesn't praise their partners luscious beard.
37,has a large nose that turns red whenever it's cold outside or when he's drunk. Hates being called 'Rudolph'.
38,"is very bigoted towards the underdark and everyone/thing from there. Will often blame problems on the surface world on the underdark. 'Political corruption? Probably a mind flayer. Those things are real you know. The underdark, such an awful place.'"
39,"actively collects children's trading cards and occasionally plays in city tournaments. He's rather joyful about discussing it too among his non-dwarven friends, but always 'forgets' his deck when drawves show up. Has gotten into verbal arguments over card rules with children before."
40,"Likes reading history, especially about heroes and battles that are often overlooked in traditional history books. (Prof in History)"
41,"Carries a flask of infinite ale around with them, however, they never seem to be drunk. (It's water)"
42,Is missing an eye/ Replaced it with a chunk of gold craved to look like an eye. Like YuGiOh.
43,"Yells unique expletives when angry, such as 'Balldersmith!', 'Haggis!' or 'SON OF AN ELF!'"
44,hates heights. actively avoids climbing unless they must.
45,Is petrified of open water. Can't swim.
46,Skin is so rough that he can light a match on any part of his body.
47,"Has large hands for someone his size.Hair grows on his knuckles. Carrying things are much easier, as is crushing eggs."
48,Thinks mind flayers don't exist; just rumors and urban legends. Scoffs at the idea of slaad's too.
49,Skilled at playing a harp due to lessons their mother made them take as a child. Is deeply embarrassed by this as harp-players are supposed to be romantic fortune tellers in their clan.
50,Attempts to wrestles beasts/animals before hitting them with a weapon.
51,Uses dyes made of crushed gems and similar substances to dye hair and beard wild colours.
52,Has a stooped posture out of shame for their unnaturally tall and un-dwarf-like body.
53,"Takes precautions against being out in daylight for too long out of fear for its effects. All the above ground races are constantly exposed to it, after all, and they can't grow decent beards to save their life."
54,"Carries (does not wear) a copper ring with intricate carvings on its circumference. It is obviously important to them, but they're reluctant to say why."
55,"Has an intense fascination for plants. Likes flowers the most, with an especial interest for lilies."
56,"Has a small pet bird for a companion, enjoys whistling songs with it."
57,"Boisterous and happy to brawl, tends to engage in violent pasttimes and drunken fights for pleasure"
58,Always carries a jeweler's lens to appraise items. Pretends to be knowledgeable in a lot of domains out of their expertise
59,"Is fearful of tight spaces, especially underground mines, etc."
60,talks in his sleep. Has a tendency to admit embarrassing things late at night.
61,"Collects random animal parts, herbs, spices, and other unique ingredients in an attempt to craft the best ale in the world. Loves this hobby."
62,Carries around a small piece of rock and will throw it at opponents in an attempt to distract them for a tick.
63,"grew up under a desert. As a result, they're fascinated by ponds and rivers. They like spending their down time by a source of water and can stare at lakes for hours."
64,Carries around their own beer stein (its 2 to 3 times the size of a regular one) and will only drink from it.
65,"Having spent the vast majority of their lives underground they are fascinated by the weather, and keep meticulous notes on it day in and day out."
66,"Is scared of horses. He will never ride one because they're 'so high up'. Oddly enough, he's fine with climbing mountains."
67,"Claims they can read the history of a stone simply by touching, licking, and examining the stone closely. Then creates elaborate stories for said stone (which may or may not be exaggerated). Will do this for stone buildings, random pebbles, mountains, any stone really."
68,Secretly appreciates elven made weaponry and dreams of learning from a master elven smith.
69,"There best child hood friend was a goblin, this is never revealed, would hide and play with the goblin growing up. Stories of their adventures are flavored as though the goblin was an imaginary creature."
70,Was friends with a half-orc as a child. Now has a very soft spot for them. Will fight orcs to the death no problem.
71,"Always has to sleep with a rock under there pillow, otherwise they have a horrible nights rest, and wake up on the wrong side of the bed the next morning."
72,"Is very understanding that not everyone can grow a beard, but scoffs at those that shave butcher their own beards."
73,"Claims that they are fastest dwarf alive, and that they can move more than 25ft in a turn. (No they can't - DM)"
74,"Has 15 siblings. At least one drops in unannounced every week, and they fill up the house/hut/guild hall during the holidays."
75,"Carries a peculiar small stone golem with rubies for eyes. claims it is just a doll from his/her childhood mountain, but attunement and magical energies suggest otherwise."
76,Old dwarf (350-380 years old) wears a pair of spectacles with stone rims. Handcrafted and very old. Emblazoned with rubies and lesser gems. Grants low-light vision only in caves and mountain passes.
77,Honors their deep dwarf roots by lighting the end of their braids or moustache on fire before battle to intimidate enemies.
78,Regrets serving their old god and is looking for a new one.
79,Treats all Gnomes and Halflings as Dwarf babies.
80,"is an avid wrestler, both the sport and the scripted spectacle. Knows all the underground wrestlers and where/when the biggest matches will be held. Goes every chance he/she gets."
81,Won't eat anything that is not 'Dwarven Cuisine'.
82,"Is convinced that everything good was invented by dwarves - and likes to tell this to anyone, willing to listen or not."
83,thinks magical classes are unworthy. A real fight has no shortcuts. Always makes puns about magic users and how they are not able to do things the ordinary way.
84,Plays bagpipes at sunrise every holy day of the week.
85,"Hates (choose a race). If something bad happens he accuses that race for it even if there where none around. Always makes puns about the weakness, the size and the magical traits of this race."
86,Immediately becomes friends with people who paysfor his drinks.
87,Why are your ears so pointy?' I asked. 'Why is your nose so big?' They said. I miss that stupid elf.
88,Claims to be a heir of a former king (He's not.).
89,This dwarf has multiple spouses.
90,"Because of their upbringing, they start every fight by throwing a stone. Either to incapacitate an enemy or distract them. 'I'll stop doing it when it stops working.' is their response."
91,"Thinks the end of days will come in their lifetime. Thus, they are extremely cautious to engage in anything that comes with a long-term commitment."
92,Missing a quarter of his/her hair from dragon fire. Still pissed about it.
93,Doesn't believe in Goliaths. He thinks those are just tall humans who work out.
94,"Protects women with vastly more valor than men, even when he risks his own life."
95,Uses his first bonus action in combat to taunt enemies (deception roll).
96,Bakes his own bread. Doesn't trust 'that elf' and his baked goods.
97,Likes fishing. Can often be found sitting by a lake or a river and fishing... while drinking obviously.
98,Doesn't like spending gold. Will always try to trade items first (I'll give you my biscuit for your ale)
99,"Thinks gems can predict the future. Emeralds are unlucky and finding them in a dungeons only means doom is ahead. Rubies mean strength and a good omen. Sapphires mean someone will need your help, and so on."
100,"Hates the sound of metal clanking as he grew up next to a blacksmith, who would at odd hours, which would keep him up at night. He sleeps with ear plugs when in the city."

d100,Entry

1,"Tonight is the 10th annual Dragonfire Drinking contest! The person who can stomach the most Dragonfire Ale (very, VERY hot) will win the grand prize!"
2,A group in the back corner of the tavern are arm wrestling.
3,An elven bard is playing on stage tonight and asking for requests.
4,"A travelling gnome from a far away land has made a deal with the tavern, and is selling exotic and strange drinks in a wooden stand they have set up in the corner of the room."
5,"It is the monthly wild magic surge brew drinking contest. If you can get the most down, you win. You may lose your hair and grow an extra arm but hey, the prize is 30 gp."
6,Local criminals hangout in this tavern. They try to sell drugs. One criminal pours red dust in the drinks of the guest while they are not watching.
7,The tavern is know for gambling. One guy is on a big winsteak and pays drinks for everybody. Nobody knows yet that he plays with loaded dice.
8,Some tables are flipped over. In the middle of the room is a young orc girl on the ground surrounded by a few people. Her water just broke. She is about to receive twins. Nobody knows what to do.
9,The owner of the tavern is an old lady. She owns about 5d20 cats. She cant serve you drinks or food right now because she has to feed her cats first.
10,There is a cow in the middle of the tavern. Everybody is wasted and nobody knows how the cow got there or who owns the cow.
11,The ‘bartender’ is handing out free drinks and food. The owner is looked into the storage room.
12,A 10-year old girl is running the tavern. Everybody is afraid of her.
13,A half-elf sitting alone seems to be muttering to themselves but is actually decribing the comings and goings of the tavern to a sentient weapon on their lap.
14,"Two separate people are drinking alone. Neither seems at all suspicious on their own, but together they happen to be watching every single patron, as well as every entrance/exit."
15,"A soldier is dressed in plainclothes, watching a deal going on at another table. The disguise is not fooling anyone."
16,"It’s the annual ‘Food Frenzy’. For two silver pieces (one of which goes to the house, the other to the pot), participants compete to eat the most meatballs in 10 minutes. There are six heats, and a then final. The winner of the gets the pot."
17,"It’s the annual Ferret-legging Endurance competition. In the sport of ferret-legging, competitors tie their trousers at the ankles before placing two ferrets inside and securely fastening their belts to prevent the ferrets from escaping. Each competitor then stands in front of the judges for as long as he can. Competitors cannot be drunk or drugged, nor can the ferrets be sedated. In addition, competitors are not allowed to wear underwear beneath their trousers which must allow the ferrets free access from one leg to the other and the ferrets must have a full set of teeth that must not have been filed or otherwise blunted. The winner is the person who lasts the longest."
18,"In the annual Bonny Beard Competition, the most elaborately styled beard, as judged by the patrons, nets the winner a night of free drinks. The losers have to shave their beards off."
19,The Annual Greased Piglet Game requires that a 15x15ft pen is set up in the tavern. Participants pay a small fee to compete to catch a lard greased piglet in the quickest time. The winner keeps the piglet.
20,A crossbow bolt crashes through the window and strikes a merchant who came to the city from far away.
21,"You hear an explosion from across the tavern. The blast knocked out a male gnome for 1d6 minutes. Once the gnome wakes up he starts madly raving, saying things like ‘I was so close!’ and ‘that was my last chance.’ and ‘it’s too late now.’"
22,"A ventriloquist starts preforming. The puppet looks very old and is wearing clothes that were quite fashionable about a century ago. The performance satirizes current events and culture and has the whole tavern laughing, but if you are observant for about half an hour, whenever the ventriloquist suggests wrapping up the performance the puppet dismisses his concerns. The show goes on for three hours until the puppet is finally satisfied, at which point the ventriloquist is extremely tired and looks terrified."
23,"It’s a only milk tavern, including milk derivatives."
24,"Off in the corner a group is gathering around an intense card game. At the table are a wise cracking dwarf, an elf who invented ‘poker face’, and a burly half orc about to loss all him gold."
25,"An old, friendly sea-hag offers a free sample of stew, with more to come if the taster guesses the secret ingredient. The stew gives a positive magical boon on a DC15 CON save and a negative effect on a failure."
26,As the party walks in they hear a Bard who is recounting there recent adventures as if he was there for all of them. (This is good for a low renown party as it adds an air of mystery).
27,"An old man can be overheard telling a ragtag group of mixed races about a dungeon. After some discussion, and a handshake, he hands them a map."
28,"An old man challenges you to a game of wizard’s chess. The wooden pieces are enchanted, gesturing and shouting as they fight, though you can’t make out what they say. It is fascinating to watch. The man promises who can win from him will win the chess set, though if you lose, it will not be easy to stop playing. He offers no further explanation. (If you lose, you become a chess piece, trapped in the game)."
29,"A puritan priest comes in and berates the patrons for their behavior, preaching a path of holiness and purity. The old innkeep tells him ‘Yer aff yer heid, ya wee bawface!’ and proceeds to flash her boobs at him. The priest flees in horror, muttering protective chants."
30,"It’s ‘Bear Night’. There are mounted bear heads on the wall, bear furs on the chairs and your drinks are served in bear-decorated goblets. After a while you begin to notice the bar is packed exclusively with hairy middleaged men, who are all acting rather familiar with each other…"
31,There’s a haggis eating competition. Winner gets free whisky till sunrise.
32,A scruffy looking man slips something into a drink before returning to the woman at his table.
33,"It’s a busy night and the bar is packed. Suddenly everyone turns around as several squealing greased pigs are released into the tavern. They have numbers painted on their backs. The staff begins chasing them to much hilarity of the patrons. After a while, they have caught the pigs numbered 1, 2 and 4 but there is no sign of number 3."
34,"All the windows of the Inn slam open as the candle light dims, only to be undone a few moments later. Then a small girl stands and shouts her apologies for the disturbance."
35,Knife throwing competition! D20+DEX: 1-10 miss the target. 10-14 outer ring. 14-18 middle ring. 18-19 inner ring. 20 bullseye. 3 throws each. PCs can play each other or NPCs for gold / rewards etc.
36,"It’s a two for one special night and the tavern is packed, making easy targets for thieves and pickpockets."
37,"A drunk half-orc starts taunting the innkeeper, who’s cut him off."
38,"The tavern has a black board on one of the walls, with the names of each person present, and current bets. It’s a deadpool, in which people bet on your death."
39,"There’s a discussion going on at the bar. One of the customers seems to be underage, and the bartender won’t get them a drink, unless he sees something that confirms they’re old enough to drink. The customer has a way to prove that, but made a bet with the other customers, giving 10 gp to each one that gets it right, and takes 10gp from each who gets it wrong."
40,"A group of exquisitely dressed people walk into the tavern, judging people’s outfits, generally in a negative way."
41,"A portal opens in the middle of the tavern. A man wearing pajamas comes out of it, orders a drink, and leaves through the portal, that closes behind him. If the players ask anyone, they will just say he shows up sometimes."
42,"The tavern’s owner runs into the tavern, saying they won the lottery, and will get everyone free drinks."
43,"A fight breaks out, between two big strong men. The bartender sighs, and gives each a free drink, separating them."
44,"The customers are all looking over their shoulders, with small smiles on their faces, and seem ready to… do something. Suddenly, someone screams ‘FOOD FIGHT!’ and everyone starts throwing food at each other. In the end, the owner gets pissed, and makes everyone clean up the mess."
45,"The tavern is hosting a weekly poker tournament. If the players win, they get gold and gossip possibly leading to a quest."
46,"A man in a dark trench coat is skulking in the back, selling contraband to anyone who asks."
47,"A man in a dark trench coat is skulking in the back, selling contraband to anyone who asks. However, he is part of a sting, and the local guard snatches up the buyers on their way out of the tavern."
48,"Someone playing the knife-fingers stabbing game accidentally stabs their own hand, possibly cutting off a finger."
49,One of the patrons has gathered a sizable crowd with their exotic pet and its tricks.
50,"The local militia captain busts down the door and grabs the innkeeper, placing him under arrest for an unknown reason."
51,Two drunken wizards come to blows over a perceived slight. Parts of the tavern catch fire or are otherwise affected by magical effects.
52,"A shadowy figure enters and orders a drink. The only problem is, there seem to be a mass of tentacles where feet should be."
53,"This tavern exists in multiple dimensions, it has at least 20 different doors which connect to the outside world, but as you guessed, different ones. The owner is a mad wizard with the longest and most unkempt beard youve ever seen. Over each of the entries, there is a sign to where it leads. One of the doors is barred and kept shut at all times, the sign reads: dont open, dead inside."
54,"Tonight’s the local Battle of the Bards, where the prize pool includes a set of fine platinum strings."
55,"The first batch of beer from the halfling brewery in the next town is very lively. A bit too lively. A tide of hoppy foam bursts from the barrel and up into the bar, showing no signs of slowing down."
56,"After a few drinks, you could swear all the patrons in the bar have the exact same face. You shake your head. Must be the wine."
57,"The barkeep here has a very literal approach to lock-ins. Sure, you can drink past closing time—as long as you didn’t want to leave again, ever."
58,The Tavern menu has a ‘Mystery Special’. When ordered it is a large stack of pancakes covered in various fruit that looks like a big smiling face. When eaten the player is reminded of their mother/father/paternal guardian.
59,A female drow in common clothes and a big hat (to block the sun) walks into the tavern and an uncomfortable silence ensues. After it is clear that the drow doesn’t want any trouble the tavern slowly goes back to normal and the drow woman orders a drink and sits down with a wealthy half elf merchant.
60,"A wrestling ring has been erected in the middle of the tavern. The current champion drinks nearby, and accepts all challengers."
61,"An old drow tells stories about his long life in the Underdark. He tells tales of other drow, kuo toa, mind flayers, flumphs, and even a purple worm he encountered."
62,"The local beastmaster has arranged an animal show. He starts off with a raven, a giant frog, and a blood hawk. He finishes with a bulette, an owlbear, and a displacer beast. Each animal loves him like a family member."
63,Part of the tavern is under construction after a battle or large fight. Builders are constantly moving planks of wood between tables and sometimes hitting patrons. Roll improvised weapon attacks vs players AC at various points in the visit.
64,The inn is flooded with people. Survivers of a battle not far off. Some seem to only have superficial wounds while others are not as lucky. Over the sounds of heavy breathing and mouning the party hears a voice ring out ‘CLERIC!! We need a cleric!’
65,A health inspector busts in and attempts to shut the bar down due to health code violations.
66,Inside the Tavern the party finds about 60 people stuffed inside this small three room tavern all gathered around the bar. The tavern just recently hired a barmaid to work full time.
67,After several drinks the party realizes that they’re the only non-monster creatures in the tavern.
68,"After several minutes inside the tavern the party can hear a thunder storm rolling into the area. The whether gets increasing worse the longer they stay inside, and after 45 minutes a tree crashes into the side of the tavern."
69,A religious group comes inside to preach about the sin of consuming alcohol.
70,The musicians plating inside the tavern draw in a large enough crowd that the that the bartenders have to start kicking people who are to drunk.
71,"After the party sits down for a drink or two, a group of guards come inside searching for several highway robbers. The robbers descriptions match those of the party members; so they’er handcuffed, dragged to prison, waiting for a trial."
72,The Half-Orc chef near a large fire pit offers the party a sample of the roasting boar he has over a spit.
73,A Tabaxi hunter set up in the corner offers to sell the party wild pheasants and other game birds for the Tavern cook to make.
74,Two Warforged start fighting one another. Watch out for their partner the Gnome pickpocket. She’s the brains of the operation.
75,A fire elemental moves into the hearth!
76,"This is a thieve’s guild’s secret hideout in plain sight. Tonight, the corpses of the dead they left beneath the floorboards arise!"
77,The tavernkeep is a vampire. One of his servants accidentally begins pouring a bottle of his finest blood.
78,"A group of overzealous paladins springs a sudden raid on the tavern, breaking casks and arresting people, slamming them into cage-carts they parked in the back."
79,"One of the patrons is a werewolf, and he begins to turn."
80,An ancient legend is (figuratively) brought to life by a traveling team of a bard and an illusion wizard.
81,Once a month the neighboring warlords meet in this tavern to discuss… literature.
82,Tavern is holding bar tending classes once a week to train new staff as well as supply competent labor to the noble houses – top of the class gets to pick their assignment.
83,Tavern acts as a clearinghouse for counterfeit currency. Next shipment arrives two days from today.
84,"A polymorphed silver dragon walks in, orders a drink with no ice, and then he just frosts up his drink whenever. He only has one drink, and when he finishes his drink, you can see him switching from creature to creature , but only minorly."
85,"The tavern begins a ‘you break it, we hire a bounty hunter to make you pay’ policy today. No one wants to be the first person to break the rule."
86,"That Elven barmaid, that’s been slapped on the ass one to many times, turns out to be a shapeshifter. And she’s just transformed into a raging ogre."
87,A notorious criminal duo known as the Grimshade Brothers have arrived to the tavern to celebrate which is in the neighboring village of the city they just robbed. Their known for robbing banks and causing mayhem wherever they go.
88,"Two goblins are on stage doing a juggling act. The juggling act involves flaming torches, hand axes, and vials of strange green goo. No one seems concerned."
89,A love potion is accidentally slipped into one of your party’s drinks instead of the beautiful lady at the next table….
90,"It is a roast night. Have the players take turns roasting either each other’s characters, or the DM."
91,A talent agent is holding auditions for the midwinter festival play. Bonus points for singing and dancing!
92,After 1d6 drinks gravity seems to hold no sway over the bar patrons. Everyone starts to float and the regular drinks keep drinking on the ceiling as if this is a normal occurrence.
93,Book signing for the new release ‘Quest for Annihilation : How Adventuring is Destroying Our Moral Fabric’
94,The drunk mage in the corner is passed out and talking in his sleep. Roll for wild magic effect.
95,The tavern is about to run out of ale. Your party is discretely asked to procure some more within 1d4 hours to avoid a riot.
96,A member of your party is mistaken for a local celebrity. People are constantly asking for autographs etc for the whole night.
97,It’s the owners birthday! Reduced drink prices and free cake!
98,"You stumble into the middle of a wake, complete with the body of the deceased on ice next to the bar. Bonus points if that’s the ice used in the drinks!"
99,The owner makes it very clear he don’t want no trouble in his bar. Will not serve adventurers if they don’t relinquish their weapons.
100,"The barkeep leaves a single coin with a tiny dragon at your table, he says ‘be sure to spend him quick, he likes to travel’ the dragon is friendly but will not separate from the coin."

d100,Entry

1,Ice Arrow - A shard of razor sharp ever-frozen ice is fastened to the end of an arrow. A hit from an Ice Arrow causes the area surrounding the wound to freeze for 1d4 hours.
2,"Net Arrow - The head of this arrow is actually a small clay pot containing a spring-loaded silk net, on a hit, the target makes a DEX save (DC 13) against being restrained. on it's turn, the target can make a STR check to break free (DC 16)."
3,Acid Arrow - The glass head of this arrow shatters upon impact spraying the target in corrosive acid. On a hit the target takes an additional 1d4 acid damage.
4,Non-lethal Arrow (blunt head) - does blunt instead of piercing damage.
5,"Rose Thorn Arrow - on hit extra 1d4 piercing from thorns and target must make a DC 15 STR or DEX save or be ensared for 1d4 rounds (can attempt to Str / dex to get free each round), 1d4 piercing damage each round the ensnared creature moves."
6,Grappling Arrow - Arrow with a strong head that will hold up to 300 lbs of weight on an attached 100ft length of rope.
7,"Small Game Broadhead - Broadhead with extending fins that will decapitate small game (CR 1/8 or lower), due to the precision needed, the target gets +5 to AC."
8,"Shock Arrow - A thundergem is sharpened into a point as this arrow's head. Upon a hit the brittle gem shatters, releasing an additional 1d8 lightning damage in a 10' radius."
9,"Water Arrow - When this arrow makes contact, it releases a burst of water that extinguishes any source of fire no greater than a five foot cube. Elementals attuned to fire are weak against it's damage."
10,"Moss Arrow - When this arrow is fired at a surface, creeping moss rapidly spreads to a circle with radius ten feet around the point of contact. Walking or climbing on the moss grants advantage on stealth checks to remain silent."
11,"Rope Arrow - When fired, this arrow releases 25 feet of hempen rope behind it."
12,"Choke Arrow - When the arrow makes contact with an object, it explodes into a cloud of noxious fumes in a sphere with a radius of 5 feet. Those inside choke as if you had casted the Stinking Cloud spell with DC 12."
13,"Alchemists Fire Arrow - contains a small vial of alchemists fire, dealing an additional 1d4 fire damage."
14,"Thundersteel Arrow - made from meteoric iron which has been imbued with the essence of the sky domain, deals 1d4 lightning damage in addition."
15,Boxing Glove Arrow - Stuns an enemy or knocks them prone on hit.
16,"Arrow of Healing - Deals 1d4 damage, heals 1d8 hp."
17,"Barbed Arrow - This cruelly barbed arrow does normal damage going in, and 1D6+2 damage coming out. If carefully removed (takes 1D6+1 rounds, DEX check at DC 15), no damage; half damage if you fail the roll. If left in, 1 damage per round spent doing anything but remaining carefully still."
18,"Arrow of Returning - After firing and striking something, the arrow will vanish in a puff of smoke and return to your quiver."
19,"Arched Arrow - curved slightly, with air channels engraved onto the tip. When fired, flies in a circle of diameter 60ft in the direction the arrow is curved toward when aiming."
20,"Crescent Moon Arrow - causes slashing damage with it's broad cutting head. Once hit the target it hooks itself in the flesh as the wound closes behind it. Causes bleeding. Not effective against armor. Not effective at long range. Can be used to cut objects further away, like ropes for traps and such."
21,Superior Smoke Arrow - Creates a Fog Cloud after 2 turns.
22,Scorpion Arrow - Does an additional 1d4 poison damage.
23,Arrows of the Wraith - Ethereal arrow tips don't hurt most creatures but is devastating to ghosts and other spirits.
24,Arrow of Whooshing - makes a sound like someone making the sound of an arrow flying through the air as it flies through the air.
25,"Arrow of Blinding - as it impacts the target, it explodes in a flash of light rendering everyone who was not averting their eyes blinded for 1d4 rounds."
26,"Arrow of Delay - when fired the arrow freezes in place mid-air, thawing one round later and targeting the original targeted location. In addition to normal damage, on a hit the target is frozen in time for one round, unable to take any actions."
27,"Pointy Twig - sold by a goblin travelling merchant, he swears it's an arrow of never-missing. It's actually just a pointy twig."
28,"Buzzing Arrow - An arrow with a head coated in honey. When it hits a target, a swarm of bees is summoned, centered on the target. The bees are not friendly to the user, but likely won't attack unless provoked."
29,Splitting Arrow - An arrow that splits into 3 separate arrows mid-flight. There are rarer versions that split into 5 and even 7.
30,Suckerpunch Arrow - Arrows that have a light metal ball instead of a pointed head. Better for knocking out targets with a shot to the head or knocking the wind out of them with a shot to the gut. Incredibly nonlethal.
31,"Light Arrow - These arrows deal radiant damage instead of piercing. They appear to be made out of pure light while emitting none at the same time. They leave a streak in the air, marking their path for up to an hour."
32,"Vampire Teeth Arrow - While not actual vampire teeth, they look pretty close. These arrows deal necrotic damage instead of piercing. The teeth may be recovered after battle to gain the damage dealt with them as healing or temporary HP."
33,Glass Tipped Arrow - Either solid or hollow to fill with alchemy items.
34,"Sleep Arrow - using sleep powder, it bursts on impacts causing one creature hit to make a con save or fall asleep. No additional damage."
35,Flare Arrow - creates a flare like projectile. If shot skyward can be seen up to one mile away. Only does 1d4 additional fire damage.
36,Grapple Hook Arrow - does not do standard damage. Can be used as a standard grapple hook as well as an attempt to attach it to a target.
37,Flash Bang Arrow - this arrow is tipped with a small grey canister that explodes in a 10 foot radius on impact. Creatures in the blast must make a DC 14 constitution save or be blinded and deafened for 1d4 rounds. The creature may repeat the saving throw at the end of each of his turns.
38,"Stalker Arrow - upon impact, this arrow lodges a small magical tracker in its target. The archer now knows the location of the target for 24 hours."
39,"Taser Bolt - upon impact, the target must make a DC 14 constitution saving throw. On a fail, the target is now paralyzed, as if affected by the hold person spell. The saving throw may be repeated at the end of each of the targets turns."
40,Scrying Arrow - It takes a moment to prep the scrying arrow. You look into the foggy glass and your non dominant eye loses sight for a second before reforming inside the glassy bulb. This effect lasts for a minute. This arrow can then be shot.
41,"Deadweight Arrow - Once its stabbed into a surface, the target's weight increases to 50 pounds."
42,"Curved Arrow - An arrow with a slight curve in it, used to hit targets behind cover."
43,Injection Arrow - An arrow with a needle on the tip used to inject enemies with poisons and other alchemical brews.
44,"Armor Piercing Arrows - Tipped with special metals that ignore AC, +2 to hit."
45,"Hollow Tipped Arrows - It breaks off inside the victim causing more damage, but are harder to penetrate armor with. -1 to hit, +1d4 damage."
46,Shadow Arrows - Arrows exposed to alchemy that allows it to go through an object or person and pierce something else.
47,"Smokescreen Arrow - Tipped with a smokebomb. Causes a cloud of smoke that obstructs vision for 1d4-1 rounds, moves 10ft in the direction of the wind every turn."
48,"Binding Arrow - Designed to explode on contact with a sticky goo that hardens almost instantly, DC 15 strength check to break. Can be used to stop or hinder movement."
49,"Gossip Arrow - on a hit, the archer discovers one mundane secret about the target. (The bandit loves knitting kinda secret) this secret is broadcasted in a 30ft radius by an ethereal voice."
50,Edible Arrow - this can be shot and break like a normal arrow but is unrecoverable. Otherwise provides the effect of one goodberry with no time spoilage.
51,"Navigators Shot - upon firing upwards, the arrow travels 80ft upwards before going 50ft towards a goal (find a target or location) the archer is currently seeking. The magic loses effect if it impacts anything before the ascent."
52,Cupid's Lust - these pair of arrows switch the minds of the targets for 24 hours when struck with the tip.
53,"Evertrue Arrow - when this arrow is fired, a target will be hit. Maybe not the one you're aiming at, but the arrow will continue to travel across the surface of the plane it was shot on in a random direction that changes every minute until it hits a target."
54,"Moist Arrow - upon impact, any surface in a 10ft cube will immediately be drenched in a thin layer of water."
55,"Arrow of Missile Attraction - on a hit, the target becomes missile attractive. Any missile / projectile that passes within 20ft of the victim has a 2 in 6 chance of being redirected towards the victim."
56,"Arrow of Monster Attraction - Any target hit by this arrow will attract any monster within 200ft. Monsters (with below human int) will treat the person or creature hit by this arrow as hostile. If arrow hits an inanimate object or the ground, any monster (with below human int) drawn to it will treat everyone in the area as hostile."
57,Arrow of Illusion - arrow creates an illusion of the archer at the impact site.
58,Arrow of Teleportation - user is teleported to the impact site of the arrow.
59,Arrow of Anti-Magic - Arrow dispels all magic spells and effects within 10ft of it's impact.
60,"Vampire Arrow - An arrow made from bone that appears to be covered in dozens of tiny holes near its tip. On a hit, a vampire arrow begins rapidly draining blood from the target’s body, causing them to take 1d6 necrotic damage at the start of the target’s turn until the head of arrow is removed from the body. These additional effects do not occur if the target has no blood or similar essential body fluid."
61,"Anti-Ballistic Arrow - A thick arrow that has a rounded tip, with fletching that constantly adjusts and readjusts itself. Upon being fired, the arrow seeks out the closest moving projectile that is within 30 feet of any point of the arrow’s flight path. The arrow changes its direction to intercept the moving projectile, and a successful attack roll against an AC of 15 results in the intercepted projectile being knocked out of the air and/or destroyed."
62,"Blight Arrow - A sinister looking arrow made from a dark wood that seems to pulse with life. On a hit, the wooden shaft of the arrow wiggles and writhes its way into the body of the target dealing an additional 1d4 damage on the hit and at the start of each of the target’s turns thereafter until the wood is removed with magical restoration or a successful DC 16 Medicine check. If the shaft still remains inside the target’s body when the target dies, 1d3 twig blights burst forth from the target’s body 2d4 rounds after the creature’s death. The twig blights are hostile to all creatures other than each other, and attack nearby creatures until they die or there are no creatures left to attack, at which point they go off in search of more victims."
63,"Screamer Arrow - A transparent, fragile arrowhead filled with volatile sonic energy causes this arrow to mildly vibrate at all times. On a hit, the arrowhead shatters and releases a ear shattering scream. Instead of dealing traditional damage, all creatures within a 30 foot radius of the arrows point of impact must make a Constitution saving throw. A creature takes take 2d8 thunder damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful one. A creature made of inorganic material such as stone or metal has disadvantage on this saving throw. Any nonmagical objects that aren’t being worn or carried also take the damage if they are in the radius."
64,"Cannon Arrow - An arrow seemingly made entirely out of metal that is still light enough to be used, faintly glowing runic symbols cover every surface. Upon being fired, the arrow transforms into a cannonball that magically continues following the arrows flight path. A creature that is hit with the cannonball takes 8d10 bludgeoning damage and must succeed on a DC 22 Strength saving throw or be knocked prone."
65,"Foecrusher Arrow - An arrow with a very large head that is disproportionate to the rest of the arrow’s body, that somehow weighs the same as a normal arrowhead. Upon being fired, the arrow begins to rapidly grow in size over the course of its flight. For every 10 feet the arrow moves, the arrow’s damage increases by 1d6 piercing damage. If the arrow travels at least 100 feet, every creature within a 5 foot radius of the arrows point of impact must make a DC 18 Dexterity saving throw. A creature takes the arrows full damage as bludgeoning damage on a failed save, and half as much damage on a successful save. The damage is done instead of the arrows single target damage, not in addition to it. The radius of the arrows point of impact increases by 5 feet for every additional 100 feet the arrow travels after the initial 100 feet."
66,Whistling arrow - A non-magical arrow with a wiffle ball-like attachment affixed to the shaft behind the point. It makes a shill whistling sound as it travels through the air. Inexpensive.
67,Silence Arrow - An arrow with a fog-filled glass pearl instead of an arrowhead. It casts the silence spell in a 20 ft spherical radius lasting for 5 minutes where it strikes.
68,"Glass-Break Arrow - The arrowhead is high quality ceramic and very lightly touched with enchantment so that it thoroughly shatters glass. Despite being enchanted, detect magic will overlook it most of the time. Inexpensive, but only shops catering to thieves and mischief sell them. Possession may be a crime in some areas."
69,Tracer Arrow - Glows when fired so you can see the arc of the arrow and where it lands. Inexpensive.
70,Grease Arrow - An alchemist's vial of grease replaces the arrowhead and spreads grease on whatever surface it strikes.
71,"Flightstopper Arrow - A creature that is flying or attempting to fly must make a constitution save before using its movement. On failure, it cannot gain altitude and instead drops 60 feet. A flying creature does not take fall damage if it is forced from the sky by the flightstopper arrow. The throw is repeated every time the flying creature tries to use its movement. The effect lasts one minute or until the arrow is removed, whichever comes sooner."
72,Wyrmslayer Arrow - Deals double damage to dragons and like kin.
73,Compass Arrow - Ordinary when fired but swivels to point north when balanced on a finger.
74,Trickstrike Arrow - The arrow teleports midfiring so that it appears to have been fired from a direction of the attacker's choosing instead. The accuracy is the same as a normal arrow.
75,Bluff Arrow - A regular arrow with an extremely persausive letter tied to it.
76,Black Arrow - Dwarven-made it is ancient and capable of piercing dragon hide.
77,Huntress Arrow - The Goddess of the Hunt blessed this arrow. Hits with the force of a falling Oak tree.
78,Arrow of the Feywar - Upon a successful hit transports the victim to another point nearby or another point on the nearest continent (flip a coin to decide).
79,Arrow of Ricochet - Considers full cover to be half cover.
80,Arrow of Desperation - Gains a +4 bonus when the archer or one of their companions has less than a quarter HP remaining.
81,Mind Spike Arrow - Deals only psychic damage. Target has disadvantage on wisdom saves until next turn. It is pink in colour.
82,"Skeletal Grasp Arrow - An arrow of bone with a grasping hand on the front. If target is struck, grasping skeletal hands raise up from the ground dealing bludgeoning damage and restraining the target and those caught in the AOE. 5 foot radius."
83,Meteor Shower Arrow - A Pure black arrow that marks a target for a meteor shower. Meteors are summoned and take 1 turn to arrive. After 1 turn a shower of massive flaming meteors rain down on the target dealing LOTS of fire and bludgeoning damage. 15 foot radius.
84,"Sentient Arrow - The arrow is actually a living organism shaped like an arrow. Its head is the arrow head. When drawing blood it sprouts its thin limbs and begins trying to inject itself inside its target host. The initial strike does damage and the target must succeed a constitution saving throw or else the creature will successfully dive into the host. While, it will deal 1d4 damage per turn and the host can feel the creature moving around inside."
85,Dryad's Kiss Arrow - Upon a successful hit by this legendary arrow the target is wrapped in vines and dragged into the earth. On a miss the arrow sprouts vines and roots that creates an oasis of permanent plant life and sprouts another arrow every century.
86,Quiver Mother Arrow - As long as this arrow is in your quiver it makes 15 arrows per day.
87,Drow Ascension Arrow - Touching these arrows bathes the shooter or anything it hits in shadow for 1 hour.
88,"Jagged Arrow - When it hit's a target, it does 1d4 piercing damage every 12 seconds (2 turns) until removed by a medicine check of 15+."
89,"Zipper Arrow - Does regular damage, but the when the arrow is ripped out by a PC, it does 4d4 damage. To rip the Arrow out, a PC needs a prerequisite strength of 15. The actual arrow has many small spikes and sharp edges on it, and near the base of the arrow is a large pull handle."
90,"Haunted Skull-Dread Arrow - Does regular damage. If arrow isn't pulled out by before 3 turns are over, the creature gains either a minor curse from a d100 table, or a disease from a d100 table. If it is a critical hit, then on the first turn the effect activates."
91,"Arrow of Agitation - on a successful hit, the target experiences varying nervous agitation, which affects to hit rolls and any bonuses to AC for Dex. Roll a d4, and subtract that number on to hit rolls and Dex-based AC. The effect lasts for 6-8 rounds."
92,"Ethereal Arrow - Upon using a command word, this arrow shifts between the material and ethereal plane. Can be used to shoot through allies without harming them or to shoot through covers."
93,Tipsy Arrow - on successful hit target is impaired as if drunk for 1d4 minutes. (disadvantage on attacks)
94,"Babel Arrow - on hit, this arrow makes you forget the languages you speak and speak languages you didn't beforehand for 1d4 hours."
95,Spoil Arrow - on hit you have a horrible taste in your mouth that distracts you from whatever else you were doing to go seek water.
96,Blurry Arrow - blurs vision for 1d20 minutes.
97,Short Jump Arrow - Arrow range is only 30 ft but allows you to teleport to anywhere within the range that it lands.
98,Pulling Arrow - can pull 300lbs of weight that is tied to the arrow for 1d100 feet.
99,"Invisibility Arrow - on hit, target vanishes for a whole 1d12 minutes."
100,Blessed Arrow - does extra 1d4 damage to undead.
101,"Banshee Wail Arrow - releases a mournful wail. This wail has no effect on constructs and undead. All other creatures within 30 feet of her that can hear her must make a DC 13 Constitution saving throw. On a failure, a creature drops to takes 3d6 psychic damage. In a succefull save takes no damage"
102,Snake Arrow - this arrow release 1d4+2 snakes when hitting a enemy (could be a small clay vase).
103,Sanctuary Arrow - cast sanctuary in the area where it hits
104,"Bull Arrow - Designed to puncture heavy armor and animal skins, the Bull Arrow has a small cache of gunpowder on the end that only detonates on contact with a hard enough surface. Deals 1d4 piercing damage, and an extra 1d8 bludgeoning damage if the target has an AC over 16."

d100,Entry

1,You have become albino. You gain Sunlight Sensitivity and Superior Darkvision.
2,Your eyes developed a reflective tapetum lucidum and they glow like a cat's when light comes directly at you. Your dark vision is increased by 30 ft.
3,You have honed your other senses living in the bleakness so that you now have the Tremorsense ability out to 30 feet.
4,You can hear all heartbeats within ten feet of you.
5,"Your body sometimes stops producing heat, so your internal temperature slowly drops down toward ambient (but never so much that you would freeze). This cyclically reoccurring effect is only slightly discomforting but is liable to make anyone with thermal vision or who makes skin contact with you suspicious."
6,"You learned a trick from zombies: if you lose a limb or other body part, your body will happily accept a ""replacement part"" freshly removed from another humanoid. The part must be very similar to the one being replaced (e.g. a hand for a hand). Replantation may be achieved by holding the ends in place and magically regaining HP or taking a long rest while the ends are held together by tight wrappings or the like. The replaced part gradually changes appearance to match the rest of you. You occasionally suffer from the delusion that another creature's body part is actually yours and that you need to take it back and stick it on, after cutting off the wrong one you have currently, of course."
7,"Your severed limbs, if intact, will attempt to return you by the best and most expedient means available to them. They will then regraft onto your stumps. Your severed limbs are effectively autonomous creatures capable of devising simple plans that would aid them in returning to you, but they only care for getting back to you, not any other goals you might have. (No, you cannot cut your hand off and expect it to grab the big jewel you wanted from under the sleeping dragon.) You gain unusual resistance to damage and bleeding out that would otherwise be caused by severing your own limbs."
8,"You can easily bend and snap your bones internally and then restore them to their proper shapes without causing yourself lasting damage. Doing this makes loud horrible sounds and absolutely disgusts anyone watching you. You have a better chance of surviving high falls if you land feet first, you can pass through any space your head can fit in, and you are proficient in escaping bonds such as manacles. Any Necromancer who cultivates skeletons covets your body for their research. They will try to take you alive to distill the source of your skeletal power."
9,"A limb of yours is dead and mummified, cold and bloodless, but doesn't putrefy. It is animated by mysterious necrotic energies. You can control it but you don't feel any pain nor sensation from this limb, and you have trouble with precise motion or even knowing where it is if it's outside of your field of vision."
10,Your mouth movements no longer sync up with your speech.
11,"Your soul is more loosely tethered to your form, occasionally it will appear as an afterimage around you, and stay fixed for a moment while you move."
12,"You have grown much thinner, losing 6+2d6 pounds (medium creature) or 4+1d6 (small creature)."
13,"The ash of the drained Shadowfell dead clings to you. Like glitter, you can always seem to find some. You smell like ash too."
14,"Your breath is always visible, like on a cold day, regardless of temperature."
15,"When you exhale, your breath appears as black smog that seems to cling around you."
16,You have lost pigmentation to the extent that your skin is now transparent.
17,"Your body has lost all color - your skin, hair, eyes, etc. are all shades of grey now."
18,Your skin has become so pale that you can now easily see your now black veins through it.
19,Your head has developed a patch of hair which only grows white. The white patch turns its natural color during the full moon only.
20,Your hair turns into long tendrils of fragile bone and won’t grow back if lost
21,"When you get angry your eyes turn jet black, advantage on intimidation rolls when someone meets your gaze. and"
22,In full sun your pupils appear blood red.
23,"You see in monochrome, having all cone cells in your eyes turned into rods."
24,"One of your eyes is now completely black and overly sensitive to light, the other is normal. An eyepatch is recommended."
25,"You now have black irises, and whatever color your iris was, your pupil is now that color"
26,Your blood is a darker shade of red now.
27,"You no longer bleed red. Whenever you are cut, grey blood flows out."
28,"Your blood is now a mild poison. (You can coat weapons in it, it deters bloodsuckers, but may be a nuisance to healers trying to help you.)"
29,You are now mildly sunlight sensitive. You sunburn easily. Unattenuated bright sunlight causes you disadvantage on perception checks.
30,"When in direct sunlight, your skin starts to steam. It does no physical damage, but it is clear the sun hates you."
31,"Some living beings have shadowy black sandglasses floating over their heads, counting down their time until death. By investigating the sandglasses, you may occasionally be forewarned of impending localized mass deaths or take action to prevent someone's premature death. You cannot see your own sandglass nor those of your companions, but you absolutely know they are there, counting."
32,"When downed and while rolling death saves, you see no light calling to you. Instead you see the Shadowfell waiting to finally claim you."
33,"Whenever you are at 0 HP, your body appears bloody and rotten, as if you've been dead for a long time. It doesn't affect your ability to be raised."
34,"Souls of the dead get confused and head towards you rather than onto their next life. You are easily haunted or possessed, but anyone who died within 60 feet of you has their revival time limit tripled (depending on the spell). If someone died while you were touching them, they have an extra day to be raised."
35,"Your body is now less detectable by the living, but you are a magnet for undead and creatures of the void, which tend to spot you more easily in any condition."
36,"In any encounter with undead, there is a chance they won't be hostile towards you immediately."
37,Invisible to undead. Undead must make a perception check to detect your presence or else they will simply ignore you. Openly attacking an undead causes it and its allies to notice you as normal.
38,When someone uses magic to detect undead there is a 50% chance that you are targeted by the spell.
39,"You survived an undead infection, but it persists within you. During flareups, despite not being undead, you are harmed by healing magic and healed by necrotic magic."
40,"Your touch intermittently causes a small amount of necrotic damage. This is involuntary, unpredictable, and cannot be turned off. (Example: d20 when you touch someone. On 1, 1d4 damage)"
41,"You become an energy leech, siphoning from souls who are within a 5ft radius of you. (Optional: Each round you are within 5ft of a sapient living creature with a soul, you can choose to deal 1 necrotic damage to it and heal by 1 HP.)"
42,Whenever you are subjected to necrotic damage the attacker is subjected to the same amount of damage.
43,You have embraced the Shadowfell's nature. You are now resistant to necrotic damage and vulnerable to radiant damage.
44,"While standing in dim light or darkness you can merge with your shadow as an action. While merged with your shadow your movement speed is 50ft, but you can't take any action besides unmerging from your shadow. While merged with your shadow your movement doesn't provoke opportunities of attack under any circumstances."
45,You still have lingering attachments to the Shadowfell which allows you to shadow walk. Increase your movement speed by 5 in dim light and by 10 when in darkness.
46,"You have been infused with the essence of the plane, giving you the ability to cast Darkness once per day."
47,You are a natural with necromantic magic. Make arcana checks about Necromancy with advantage. You also learn one necromantic cantrip.
48,"You can shape the stuff of shadows into semi-real objects. Unlike prestidigitation, you can craft small shadowstuff things that move and imitate life, but these normally seek to return to the shadows rather than obey the will of their creator. Shadowstuff crafts are easily identified by the smoky wisps they emanate and sunlight dissipates them. Crafting shadowstuff requires no components other than shadows and your breath."
49,"When you use any dimensional portal or magic similar to Plane Shift you risk returning to the Shadowfell, no matter your original destination."
50,You are a survivor who developed the skills of a honed monster slayer. Choose a specific monster common in the Shadowfell of CR3 or less as a favored enemy.
51,"An abyssal survivalist, you are proficient at matters of survival in dark caves."
52,"You can hear the soft whisper of shadows over nearby surfaces. While this helps you find the hidden, it can deafen you in some cases (such as light through leaves)."
53,"Players now have difficulty differentiating between the living and the dead, and they fail to see why a person should be treated any differently when their body and soul have divorced."
54,"Your fashion sense has become permanently disturbed, either for the grim or the exceptionally cheery."
55,You can speak no louder than a whisper.
56,You have depression.
57,You have lost almost all sense of taste. You now love spiced foods.
58,"Surviving in the Shadowfell has lowered your standards a lot, you can eat almost anything without feeling sick or disgusted."
59,You no longer see the appeal in having your meat cooked before eating it.
60,"You no longer hunger and food all tastes the same; like mush. You always either forget to eat or simply don’t care to, your party has to push you to eat something otherwise your body will silently starve to death."
61,"Regardless of your affiliation, your presence tends to cause ominous signs and minor troubles for figures and establishments aligned with deities opposing the undead. All the candles in a church might extinguish when you enter, or a paladin's button may pop off when you pass in the street."
62,"Drow, Duergar, and other dark dwelling sentient creatures feel oddly at ease when dealing with you."
63,You speak common with a Shadowfell undercommon accent and use undercommon words and sayings characteristic of the Shadowfell without realizing it. You cannot seem to shake the habit even if it is pointed out to you.
64,On critical failures to charisma checks you forget common for 1d4 turns and only remember undercommon.
65,"You tend to attract the non-hostile attention of weak creatures of the night. A prowling pack of wolves may idly follow your party, spiders take up residence in your pockets, cockroaches do not flee your presence, mice bring you shiny trinkets in exchange for seeds, moths and fireflies circle you, etc. (e.g. a Disney Princess of the darkness effect)"
66,Worms and insects are drawn to you.
67,"Wildlife grows nervous around you. Living creatures will attack you less often, but in greater numbers with greater caution."
68,Beasts do not trust you and you have disadvantage on all animal handling checks. You have advantage on intimidation checks against beasts.
69,"Wherever you touch, you produce shadows that stay there for a few seconds."
70,Your shadow takes on a life of its own when no one else is looking. It may mime murdering your friends' shadows or shift into horrible visages. It behaves as normal when other people can see it.
71,Your shadow is much darker and more sharply defined than it should be.
72,"Your shadow will move according to your emotions and feelings, even if you don't move at all."
73,"Your shadow has not disappeared, but rather it surrounds you and tries to cling to you as a new layer of skin. the brighter the light the darker the shadow (or vice versa, DM’s call) (Optional: +1 to AC in certain conditions)"
74,Your shadow detaches from your body and goes about on its own when you sleep.
75,"Your shadow is replaced with your worst fear, only you can see it."
76,"Your shadow behaves differently every day. Roll a d6) 1: Your shadow is missing, 2: Your shadow stretches toward the sun, 3: Your shadow resembles a shambling corpse, 4: Your shadow resembles a young child with a broken limb, 5: Your shadow resembles an unidentifiable horrifying beast, 6: Your shadow resembles the grim reaper, flowing cloak and scythe to match."
77,"Your shadow autonomously collects interesting things for you and puts them in your pocket when people aren't looking. It especially likes looking in forgotten dark places. Most found items are worthless or low value: stray copper, mice skulls, broken glass, dead beetles, dropped beads, etc. Your shadow respects other people's property ... most of the time."
78,"If you sleep with any marking instrument that can write in the color black, there is a chance something will use your hand to write messages directed at you and your party. The GM decides what is written, the frequency, and the personality(s) of the writer(s)."
79,You hear strange whispers when you are around a graveyard or any corpse.
80,"Whenever you wake up, you hear disturbing whispers: ""You are already dead"", ""Today you will come home, back to the Shadowfell"" etc."
81,You and one creature from the Shadow plane are linked. Sometimes you see what they see and vice versa. Both of you know places that only the other have visited.
82,A being of dark power followed you back from the Shadowfell. It observes your actions and comments on them. It is totally invisible to everyone else and will never interfere in your actions.
83,You have established a relationship with a cadre of ancient spectre sages during your time in the Shadowfell. You are proficient in Shadowfell-related history checks or gain a bonus if you already have this skill.
84,"You see shadowy figures that aren't there in mirrors, glass, and other reflective surfaces."
85,"Your reflection reveals a small set of horns protruding from your forehead, which seem to grow with each ""cruel"" act you accomplish. (The reflection only appears this way to you.)"
86,Your reflection now talks to you and tells you to perform horrible acts of violence onto those around you. Alone? It tells you to murder yourself in any way possible.
87,"At night, everyone's eyes appear black and their faces slowly begin to disfigure if you stare too long. (This is only visible to you)."
88,"You have the feeling of having lost someone in the Shadowfell, but you can't remember anything about this person, not even the name."
89,"You require a ""night light"", or absolute darkness, or a security object (such as a treasured blanket or a knife under your pillow) to gain the benefits of a long rest."
90,You have trouble sleeping at night but feel rather drowsy during the day. You have become nocturnal.
91,Your spirit continues to wander the Shadowfell when you sleep.
92,"You can possess people's dreams, causing nightmares."
93,When you sleep your body functions on a level so low that you seem dead and anyone can mistake you for a corpse.
94,"You prefer sleeping in graveyards and other places with strong negative energies, since it's the only cure for your insomnia."
95,"Your long rests are 1 hour shorter, you will never have a dream again."
96,"You have a 10% chance of having a nightmare, which results in 8-hour rests having the effect of 4-hour rests."
97,"Leaves, grass and other plant matter bend away from you as you pass. (Optional: You leave less of a trail and are harder to track through vegetation, but easier to detect while moving through it)"
98,"Every time you take damage, you alone hear a distant bell toll."
99,"At a certain regular time of day (e.g. Midnight), you become ethereal for 1 minute. You are partially connected to the Shadowfell during this time."
100,When you start a fire or light it only sheds half the light it normally would for a while. Light you create is slow to notice it isn't in the Shadowfell.

d100,Entry

1,A mermaid.
2,A merman.
3,A shark with 2 heads and tentacles where its tail should be.
4,The net has been chewed through.
5,A skeleton with different gold bones.
6,A school of singing fish.
7,The tentacle of a kraken.
8,"A bunch of crabs with weirdly shaped claws. Some look like they have hands, paws, knives, trident, etc."
9,A kraken toddler.
10,The kid of a mermaid & merman. Around 6 or 7 years old.
11,A 20ft. white lobster.
12,A severed ear with an attached golden earring.
13,A message in a bottle.
14,Dragon-turtle egg.
15,A poisonous fish that deals 1D8 damage when eaten.
16,A school of quippers.
17,A locked chest.
18,Fragments of a wrecked vessel.
19,Eggs of a Sahuagin.
20,A coral/barnacle-encrusted magical weapon/armor.
21,"A concrete block with the remnants of two humaniod legs sticking out. If the players break the concrete, a ring of waterbreathing can be found on one of the toes. Kinda makes you wonder how the person died if it wasn't by drowning...."
22,A ships intricately detailed figurehead.
23,A chum bucket.
24,A pineapple with a sea snail crawling all over it.
25,"A lobster trap containing a crab, a squid, a sea sponge, and a starfish."
26,A glass ball containing a live squirrel.
27,A broken leg bone.
28,A letter in a bottle. Written on the letter is a recipe for a very delicious sandwich.
29,A painting of a pirate and his parrot.
30,A bloated corpse that looks exactly like you.
31,"The net is empty, but coated with gritty, pitch-black oil."
32,A perfectly intact but not fossilized dead animal that has been extinct for millennia.
33,"A fist-sized, segmented black metal pyramid that causes everyone around it to vie for possession of it with increasing violence unless it is submerged in salt water."
34,A skull of the fishman species with noticeable gouges and cuts around the eye sockets.
35,Driftwood.
36,The most beautiful piece of driftwood you've ever seen.
37,A rune-covered iron flask sealed with a silver band.
38,A wooden doll without clothes.
39,A grapefruit sized stone sphere that mysteriously floats in salt water.
40,A key carved from bone.
41,A fine/expensive looking cloak that hasn’t begun to rot yet.
42,A large cod. (Gold ring in its stomach)
43,A scroll case with a now-indecipherable treasure map.
44,"Your net is torn from your hands: a DC 25 perception check from on the ship, or a DC15 from in the water, reveals an immovable rod that it got caught on."
45,A sentient jeweled necklace which appears to be worth several thousand gp but tries to convince the wearer to kill themselves.
46,"An ornate wooden statue of some god or goddess, now covered in barnacles."
47,A bottle containing one copper piece and a note reading “spend it well”. The coin is too big to leave the bottle.
48,"A sleeping human girl wearing barnacle/seaweed covered clothes that look incredibly old. Once she is relatively dry, she wakes up."
49,"A strange stone tablet with a map etched on it, and writing in Aquan."
50,"A live crab, but made of solid gold and encrusted with gems."
51,The anchor of a legendary pirate vessel.
52,A talking fish that offers to grant a wish in exchage for being set free.
53,"A rusty sword that seems to glow, but only when you look at it from the corner of your eye."
54,"A carved stone talisman on a broken cord, tangled in seaweed."
55,A bottle of rum.
56,"An ancient bottle of wine, encrusted with barnacles."
57,A brass oil lamp - maybe you should try rubbing it clean...
58,1d8 spiky green fruits. It will cause you to vomit sea water (and just sea water) if you eat it.
59,A golden compass and astrolabe.
60,A sea-elf offering slightly damp sea scrolls for sale. Very handy during storms.
61,Giant 30ft. clam. 50% chance for a pearl.
62,Giant lobster being ridden by a sea goblin.
63,A talking sea turtle.
64,A reverse mermaid. (Top half fish and human legs).
65,A bottle with a (d100)potion inside.
66,A school of fish that cause hallucinations when consumed.
67,A giant 25ft oyster. Cracking it open reveals a Sea Dragon egg instead of a pearl.
68,A chunk of meteorite that fell into the ocean.
69,A glass helmet that grants darkvision and waterbreathing.
70,A trident.
71,A shipwrecked sailor.
72,The leftovers from a sauhaugin attack.
73,"Large orbs that appear to be made of pure water, which are slightly gesticulating (an aquatic variant of gelatinous ooze)."
74,A baby in a basket (race can very based on DM descretion).
75,"A pirates peg leg. Made of two parts, a wide brim that attaches to the leg and the actual peg. Unscrewing it reveals the leg is hollow, with a map on the inside."
76,A Demigod who had one too many to drink. Return him to their dad to get a reward.
77,A shackled live Triton.
78,Several large pieces of perfectly polished sea glass.
79,An old boot mimic.
80,"A bag of coins from different civilizations, not all of them are from recent civilizations, but all of them are covered in a black, viscous ooze."
81,"A clam that’s sealed shut, with an unbreakable shell. If the shell is pried open, the clan starts signing sea shanties in the wrong key - very, very loudly."
82,A bottle with a map in it.
83,"An entire campfire, still lit, that doesn’t burn anything."
84,A small red crab that speaks fluent Common with a melodic accent. Once in the boat it demands to be placed back under the sea.
85,"A barnacle clad silver hand mirror, miraculously still intact. When you try to look at your reflection, you see yourself as a bloated dead corpse."
86,A sealed container with an important letter inside.
87,An odd & very fancy looking coffin that is sealed.
88,"A sextant made of coral, covered in kelp."
89,A harpoon.
90,Gold coins that are (20d10 x 100) years old.
91,A whale screaming bloody murder.
92,The eggs of a kraken.
93,A very large squid. Could easily be mistaken for a kraken.
94,The skulls of Giants. 8 to be precise.
95,The Kraken
96,A shark with half-formed legs.
97,A shell inscribed with runes (a mermaid's love poem).
98,A giant that was out for a swim. He got tangled in the net.
99,An octopus with a knife and a salty look in her eye.
100,A mysterious egg that doesn't belong to any known species.

d100,Entry

1,The dragonborn is covered in glimmering red scales. They seem to turn a slight orange color in the sunlight.
2,This dragonborn has several scales missing and a long gash running along his face.
3,"This dragonborn has two long, spined and membranous ears."
4,"This dragonborn has a slightly off-center snout, akin to a poorly-reset broken nose."
5,This dragonborn has two small bony nubs at their shoulder blades- vestigial wings
6,"This dragonborn has poor control over their breath weapon, and when they are agitated their nostrils and mouth crackle with lightning/exude a green gas/smoke like chimneys drip green acid/breath puffs of frosty white air."
7,This dragonborn has highly acidic saliva.
8,This dragonborn has long overly curled horns.
9,This dragonborn has a heart that glows bright enough to be seen beneath the scales.
10,This dragonborn has spines that stick out from every joint.
11,Smoke is always slowly rising from their nose and mouth.
12,This dragonborn's scales are prismatic.
13,This dragonborn has a tiny pair of unusable wings.
14,This dragonborn has 2 inch retractable nail/talons on their fingers and toes.
15,This dragonborn has eyes that change color depending on their emotions.
16,"This dragonborn appears to have had their claws torn off, so a leather bound brace of daggers serves as their replacement."
17,This dragonborn has random different colored scales glistening blue and white.
18,"This dragonborn has a crest of multicolored feathers atop it's head, resembling a hairdo."
19,"This dragonborn is branded on their forehead with a strange, unknown symbol."
20,"The dragonborn only refers to themselves by a number emblazoned on their gear (necklace, scabbard, belt, etc.)."
21,The dragonborn slurs all their S's into 'sh' sounds.
22,"The dragon's acid breath clearly went wrong, as the flesh on the right side of his face, from the middle of his neck to the top of his mouth is burned off."
23,"The dragon is missing all of it's scales, revealing the pale skin beneath. It's color is only identified by a small patch of scales on it's cheek."
24,The dragonborn has one or more hidden paths on their skin where scales never developed.
25,"This dragonborn has traces of another colour (for example, little splotches of black scales on a green dragonborn)."
26,"This dragonborn's voice seems to come from within it, rather than its lips and mouth moving when it talks."
27,This dragonborn's eyes gleam red while in combat.
28,This dragonborn is constantly drawn to live as a dragon and hoard all the loot.. for safe keeping of course.
29,This dragonborn's fangs grow in the presents of injured enemies.
30,The Dragonborn has a cracked or broken snout horn.
31,"(Insert breath weapon) often emerges in either liguid or gaseous form from nostrils when angry, depending on the breath weapon."
32,"This dragonborn has a fake, steel nose horn."
33,This dragonborn has transluscent or transparent patches of scales.
34,This dragonborn has a frill running down the chin and neck.
35,"This dragonborn has a frill running up the snout, head, and the back of the neck."
36,"This dragonborn has 3 eyelids: 2 normal ones, and a thin, almost transparent one underneath that moves in a perpendicular direction to the other two."
37,This dragonborn tends to hiss when speaking.
38,The Dragonborn has shiny blue scales. The darkness of the color is determined by the temperature.
39,"Their breath weapon is always accompanied by a horrific, sickly sweet stench."
40,They have two large (possibly colorful) frills instead of horns.
41,"They have albinism, making it hard to tell what exact kind of dragonborn they are."
42,They have a small patch of scales etched with scratches. It's become a nervous habit to trace over them or scratch even more.
43,"Their breath weapon is unusually colored (blue fire, red acid, green lightning, etc)."
44,Their horns originate in the back of their head and curl around to face forward.
45,They have ears. They look elven in nature.
46,"Their eyes have two pupils, with different colored irises."
47,"They have a habit of chewing on gemstones, jewelry, and precious metals."
48,They randomly switch into speaking Draconic and have to catch themselves.
49,"They have pits in their face instead of an actual nose, similar to a snake's."
50,"Their scales are a dull, matte color."
51,"They have 5 fingers and 5 toes, as opposed to the standard 3."
52,"They have a long, serpentine tongue."
53,"Their scales are bumpy, thick, and loose on their skin (think a gila monster)."
54,"Their scales are sleek and uniform, like a snake."
55,"Their scales are incredibly uneven. Some are huge, others are tiny. This isn't uncomfortable, just making interesting patterns on their skin."
56,This dragonborn rambles a lot - Conversations with him tend to DRAG ON.
57,This dragonborn has a third eye. Doesn't actually see but can distinguish changing levels of light above them.
58,Their mouth is brimming with bacteria that can kill in 5-7 days without treatment from a bite.
59,They have tail spikes like a stegosaurus.
60,"Their scales are a dull faded red color, but glow bright red when the Dragonborn is aroused or in love."
61,They have the power to make their scales shine with bright neon colors on command.
62,"Their singing voice is the exact opposite tone of their speaking voice (for example, if the Dragonborn is female and has a higher voice, they will sing in a deep bass-baritone). It's always a beautiful voice regardless, making them better performers."
63,"Their scales are incredibly flexible, allowing the Dragonborn to bend in near impossible positions (think contortionist)."
64,Their hiccups are powerful bursts of freezing air.
65,His scales shimmer like a rainbow in moonlight.
66,"She has flaps of skin under her armpits, almost like wings but they don't do anything."
67,This dragonborn has two frills on top of his head. Keeps him cool in hot temperatures.
68,This dragonborn has scaly human-like ears. Everyone calls him 'Ear-boy'.
69,"He stares at you intently as if he can see into your soul. After noticing that he is staring at you thoughts begin to creep into your mind that he is telepathic. You think to yourself that's ridiculous and he looks disappointed as soon as you do. As soon as you converse dust gets kicked into the air and you notice his nictitating membranes fluttering over his eyes. 'One more difference between him and you', you think to yourself."
70,"The Dragonborn's breath weapon is incredibly uncomfortable, even painful, like puking. A few dry heaves beforehand, with a bit of tears and snot afterwards."
71,The Dragonborn's form was not made for the human world. Clawed fingers get in the way of delicate tasks; a head bumped on a low doorway will take some effort in order to pull the horns out. The Dragonborn is resigned to this.
72,This dragonborn has an above average sized tail to compensate for their vestigial legs.
73,This dragonborn has shorn horn stubs on the side of their head. They were stolen by alchemists looking for an E.D. cure.
74,This dragonborn has an odd scale discoloration that looks eerily similar to the crest of a very well known Elven god.
75,"The dragonborn can clean their eyelids with their forked tongue, but only does this as a party trick."
76,The dragonborn can gallop quadrupedally by using their tail for balance. They are also an effective climber.
77,The dragonborn has impressive face whiskers like a carp.
78,The dragonborn hates sweets. He/she is fond of anything that makes a satisfying loud crunch. Bananas are only tolerated with the peel still on.
79,The dragonborn is patient to a fault and sometimes forgets that children and grandchildren cannot be judged by the actions of their parents.
80,The dragonborn has a colorful dewlap on their chin and neck.
81,The dragonborn can move their eyes independently of one another.
82,"Their scales are of a much lighter tone than the skin, making them stand out even more."
83,They have turned their breath weapon into a party trick so always carry chestnuts to instant roast or room temperature beer to instantly chill.
84,They are overly formal and insist you call them by their full name and title at all times.
85,"They are covered in a sparkly paint that magically changes colour every few minutes, making it impossible to tell what their natural colour is."
86,(chromatic) They are not particularly clever and have covered themselves in glitter thinking it will make them look metallic.
87,They only speak draconic but have a pet talking lizard that sits on their shoulder and translates for them.
88,They treat all other species like biological specimens that should be studied and are taking extensive notes on their observations.
89,They are overly vain about their scales and teeth and spend a long time every morning polishing and shining them.
90,"They take great pride in their claws, and have intricate designs painted on them."
91,"They are very elitist in terms of colour and classify other races into the dragon colour categories by hair colour, treating them accordingly."
92,"They have a cold and keep accidentally setting off a mild version of their breath weapon every time they sneeze, which is often."
93,"Whenever they use their breath attack, their eyes shine bright white."
94,They have weak and useless vestigial wings coming out of their shoulders that they try to keep hidden.
95,"When sleeping, they exhale harmless clouds of smoke from their nostrils."
96,The dragonborn refuses to eat any meat that isn't cooked past well done.
97,They like to cover themselves in mud constantly 'to fight parasites'.
98,The dragonborn has a bifurcated nose horn.
99,The dragonborn has tiny useless T-Rex arms on their shoulder blades.
100,The dragonborn has dry patches of grey scales that occasionally sluff off.

d100,Entry

1,"A large family of gnomes. They are quite welcoming to guests, and serve dishes upon dishes of rich, steaming food at their meals, often accompanied by the father and the older sons singing."
2,"A young tiefling loner who's willing to share his small, spartan flat. A starving-artist type (well, not quite starving, he does pretty well) who specializes in portraits. He doesn't bother the guests if they don't bother him. Keeps his work depicting who he remembers as his mother (an Erinyes) in a safe in his room."
3,"A soft-spoken Half-orc librarian and his wife, an Elvish herbalist. She isn't as welcoming as him, but is alright with guests as long as they stay out of the workshop. They both do some of the cooking, so the meals are...unique."
4,"A Kobold matriarch. While her children have all moved out, their children are dropped off at Grandma's house quite frequently, and she teaches them all she knows. She also runs a small shrine to Bahamut in the cellar."
5,"A hot-headed, wealthy heiress and her more rational lady-in-waiting."
6,"The prince of a corroding noble line, of late taken to dressing in black, composing gloomy poems, and brooding on the battlements of his manor."
7,"A dwarvish professor with a magnificent walrus mustache, as well as his warm, old-fashioned wife (a dressmaker) and their daughter, who's visiting for a month or so from her apprenticeship."
8,The quiet Mother of a hostel run by the temple of the god of the poor. The tragedy and despair of many of her visitors has rubbed off on her a little. The food is outstanding.
9,"A not-quite-right young man with ambitions to become a psychologist. Asks far too many personal questions, then goes off on rants about what he thinks shaped his guests to the people they are today. Total quack psychologist, doesn't know what he's saying at all."
10,"An Eladrin who's spending a few centuries 'indulging in kindness'. There's a too-good-to-be-true air to the stay. Breakfast in bed, indoor training arena, a small dungeon built underneath the manor and stocked with inexpensive monsters, a wizard's study, everything they could possibly want. And the host is always smiling."
11,"A jovial Goliath with an Australian accent who spends most of his time wrestling with various dangerous forms of wildlife. Owns a large merchant company, spends most of his time doing push-ups or lifting weights or wrestling yetis."
12,"A shriveled, wrinkled, hobbling old Bullywug whose sentences are out of order, and seems to speak in riddles. He wears a slightly threadbare robe and carries a walking stick."
13,"A stern Halfling dance instructor. She's quite sprightly, humming waltz tunes as she works. She corrects people's postures out of force of habit."
14,"An old Dragonborn mercenary who frequently lapses into a thousand-yard-stare. While not tormented by nightmares, he's a good-humored guy with quite a few tips on adventuring."
15,"A water genasi weaver whose skill isn't quite unmatched, but it's up there. Naturally, the curtains and carpets of his house are expertly made and quite flamboyant."
16,"A cackling, bitter old woman. Actually a Green Hag, and her curse is the reason the couple next door (whom she finds insufferable) have been trying for a child for years without success. Serves stew or porridge for every meal from a huge, battered-looking black cauldron."
17,A hard-as-nails half-elf rancher. Owns stables upon stables of pure-bred racing horses. Despises city-slickers.
18,"An old Minotaur noble. He wears huge suits, custom-made for him, and has a staff of Animated Objects who sing, dance, and make dinner."
19,"A slightly suspicious young woman. Knows far too much about weapons, disappears for long periods of time, and locks the basement door very heavily. She's an assassin for a local gang of racketeers, and will skip town if she's found out."
20,"An Animated Armor that speaks like the Discworld golems (That Is, She Talks Like This) and moves very jerkily. She (well, it's built for a female humanoid) used to work for an evil artificer before a band of adventurers gave her full free will. Knows a thing or sixty-four about dungeoneering, and considers herself indebted to all adventurers."
21,"A goblin horse-jockey who loves nothing more than the thrill of a race. Talks a mile a minute, usually boasting about his races, and his house is full of trophies that he polishes devoutly."
22,A human card-sharp who won his entire house in a game of Triple Ogres. He's married to the shrewd but not very welcoming owner of a local tavern. She brings home the latest gossip each night.
23,"A kobold artificer who's trying to turn his species' natural affinity for mechanisms to the good. Owns all sorts of fascinating contraptions, like an automatic pencil-sharpener or a tiny construct that writes down any good ideas he has mid-conversation."
24,"A merry old smuggler, although he's put his pirating days behind him aside from the odd chorus of Dead Man's Chest. His house is adorned with model ships and sketches of exotic shores. Drinks strong home-brewed grog."
25,"The town doctor. There's something odd about her of late. She stays up past midnight, tends to skip meals, and always seems to be tearing up some piece of paper and tossing it in the trash. (She's smitten with the blacksmith's apprentice, but can't bring herself to tell him.)"
26,"A rough-and-ready frontier-dwelling female Dwarf, who lives in a quaint cottage. She's older than most of the village, and knows all the skills of the hinterlands: medicine, hunting, cooking, the lot."
27,"An old man who can't seem to look you in the eye. He has one craft, and one craft only: he's a knife maker. Assassins from every syndicate, court or gang come to him for their daggers. Even the odd Drow comes in the dead of the night to buy an honest-to-Lolth Master Work dagger."
28,A scheming duke who tries to see if the party thinks his power-plays would work without hinting too obviously at his massive ambitions.
29,"A satyr couple who are, well, typical satyrs. They love wine, music, food, the usual revel stuff. Enjoy having guests, of course, but can't stand 'sticks in the mud', 'killjoys' or 'introverts'."
30,"A female Drow who left the Underdark because she's claustrophobic. Polite, in a regal sort of way. Her house doesn't have hallways so much as long, broad halls, with bookcases or coffee tables or armchairs."
31,"A newer vampire who is having a little bit of an identity crisis. He gets the 'nocturnal' part, yes, he gets that, but isn't the whole 'domination' thing a little unethical? and similar conversation. Keeps forgetting that garlic tastes disgusting to him now."
32,The best Dwarvish pastry-chef that has ever walked the earth. And she knows it. Quite boastful.
33,"The keeper of a local shrine to the fire god. He'll just sit by the fireplace, staring into it for hours on end. Has a very large and overly friendly golden retriever."
34,"The local 'crazy cat lady'. An Air Genasi whose hair is always blowing in a gentle breeze. This confuses her cats to no end. She has forty-three of them, and one Mimic who enjoys it's current lifestyle and has decided to stay shaped like a cat."
35,"A Tabaxi game-warden. His wolfhound isn't part wolf, it's part Displacer Beast, which means people often think he has two dogs. Pleasant but fairly quiet."
36,"A grizzled old human war veteran. Wears an eyepatch. Has a suit of plate-armor stained with horrific, otherworldly humors in his front hall. Retired after ridding his ancestral estate of some kind of great beast he refuses to describe."
37,"A gnomish scientist who studies modrons. He's utterly fascinated by them, and can go on for hours with horrifically dull facts and factoids about them. His house is littered with mounted modrons, dissected modrons, everything modron-related you could imagine."
38,"A time-wizard who messes with his personal time for kicks. Making himself twelve years old, being in four places at once. He thinks it's a riot. His house is full of books of temporal magic, or at least it was, twelve minutes before you try to open one of them. Opening one book makes them all vanish to the past. It's his security system."
39,A noble Knight Lord who lives in a small castle and commands an order of chivalrous Knights. A former adventurer.
40,A wise Grand Wizard who lives in a magic tower and commands a guild of powerful Wizards. A former adventurer.
41,A clever Spymaster who lives in a heavily-secured manor and commands a guild of Spies. A former adventurer.
42,A pious High Priest of Light who lives in a modest house attached to a glorious Temple. A former adventurer.
43,"A homely man with balding white hair, a small beard and eyeglasses. Meets with friends often, talking for hours in the cellar. Are they...acting? Playing some sort of dice-game? It's not quite clear. Says he hails from the realm of Greyhawk."
44,"An elvish professor of languages who, despite having fought in several wars, is a honorable, straight-laced, old-fashioned gentleman. He's writing a rather long book. Apparently it's about halflings and some kind of Ring?"
45,"A razor-witted Dwarvish comedian who does standup at local taverns, dishing out the side-clutchers and knee-slappers galore. Willing to share a few jokes with the party, too. His 'why did the cockatrice cross the road?' always gets 'em."
46,"A Bugbear leg-breaker for the local mob is trying way too hard to be polite and gracious. His apartment's nice, of course, but he seems to think that the entire party are some sort of sting operation."
47,"A former Underdark delver, this calm but dispassionate female Tiefling is married to a far more bubbly and cheery Wood Elf. They bicker regularly about what 'acceptable decorations' are, stuffed Troglodyte heads or singing roses."
48,"A brawny whiskey-maker who meets over a nice, old keg with rogues and grave-robbers every night, it seems. His house is above his tavern."
49,"An Eladrin woodcarver who has recently taken up trying to enchant things. She's terribly confident it'll work out eventually, but for now you'll have to put up with wooden busts that hurl abuse or curse words and cutlery that work together to spell out rather rude slang."
50,"A Halfling balloonist with a terrible case of wanderlust. Half of his things haven't been unpacked yet, half of them are already ready to go."
51,"A master wizard who crafts Golems. Has some shady deals with dungeon overlords, but is still a good man. Might cut the Evil Overlords off from his business if approached; he's a man of principles, just needs a push of sorts to get him to stand his ground for them."
52,"An Aasimar teamster who's moving into the song business. He's got quite the voice, and a few songs already written: All Shook Up, 500 Miles, and he's working on a few more."
53,A slightly edgy Tiefling who wants to be both friendly and intimidating. Budding metalhead. His apartment is nearly plastered with band posters and song lyrics.
54,"A genteel, aristocratic Red Dragon who lives in an enormous castle."
55,"A curious young man enamored by the sea. Despite his youth, his hair is receding. He never seems to blink, either. His house is full of weird idols and jewelry of ancient civilizations."
56,A charlatan 'wizard' who's really just a chemist. Tries to keep her lab hidden. Nearly has a breakdown if she's confronted about her fraud.
57,"A Goliath strongman of the local circus. His quarters are rather large, because he's rather large. They're right next to the acrobats' and the lion tamer's."
58,"A vain elvish wizard who spends most of her time in front of her magic mirror, and the rest of it complaining about upload schedules and dislike mobs and ad revenue."
59,"A dwarvish butcher. His wife is an author. Both of his daughters are in preschool. He himself is vegetarian, but does eat fish. Spends his evenings playing pool in the cellar with his friends, or going on walks with his daughters."
60,A professional court-jester of the local duke or lord. Not as cheery off the job; gripes to anyone who'll listen about his poor wages and difficult job. His house is a small cottage within the bailey of the castle.
61,"A tight-lipped priest who seems to have a shrine to every god in his tiny house. The hallways are crammed with altars and icons, and the whole place smells like incense 24/7."
62,An unintentionally insufferable Aasimar ballerina. Lets the guests have the run of the kitchen; she's too busy practicing for her next performance in the studio downstairs.
63,"A young bachelor Mountain Dwarf, who's bitter about getting turned down by the local army or militia. He's drinking a little more than is good for him."
64,"A gnomish jeweler, his wife and three children. They have a pretty large townhouse. The husband is a little busy with an important order: a new crown for an anonymous nobleman."
65,"A halfling priest of various gods of knowledge and nature. He's a part-time biologist, running a few experiments in the lab in his basement. He'd love to meet a Druid or Ranger with more hands-on experience than himself."
66,"A Fey who lives in a checkers-themed tower. May kick the guests out if they mention chess or use chess analogies. Most of the food is circular (pie, pancakes, etc.), the tablecloths and bedsheets all have checkered patterns. Writes long letters to a bitter rival."
67,A Fey who lives in a chess-themed tower. Gets rather testy if people mention checkers. The staff are construct automatons that only move like particular chess pieces. Complains about a completely irrational rival who sends him storms of nonsense letters every day.
68,A professional human trick-shot-archer. She goes on tour with the circus now and then. Her favorite one is nailing a playing card out of someone's hand from one hundred paces.
69,"A stout Dwarf who's a master cook. He puts his heart and soul into every slab of beef, taking hours just to prepare them for barbecuing. Doesn't spend much time with the guests."
70,"A human former doctor (she's still got the beak-mask hung up on the wall in an airtight case, and she warns the party that it's quite contaminated) who retired after fighting some sort of otherworldly entity beneath her ancestral estate. Recently took up horse-riding."
71,"A human comedian whose jokes tend to be at his own expense. Unmarried but pretty well-off, for a comedian. He tends to leave in the evening and come back close to midnight after his show."
72,"An eladrin priest of Tymora. Closer to his fey ancestry than most Eladrin. He's scheming with a local gang to spring some of their hooligans from prison- after all, the whims of chance are unpredictable, or so he'll say if the party threatens to inform the authorities. Then he will try and bribe them."
73,"A calm Oriental-looking man who works as a janitor during the day. His apartment isn't exactly barren, but it's certainly unextravagant. He's teaching a local child the various martial arts he mastered in his time as a Monk."
74,"A simple Halfling herb-farmer. She has a small plot of land behind her house, where she grows things like spices and vegetables. Patient, because as she says, you can't hurry peppers. Spends most of her time reading novels."
75,"A dragonborn tale-weaver. No, not an author, she's quite firm. A tale-weaver, the kind that don't get written down so much as passed along. Though she doesn't exactly have it in writing, she's very familiar with the wording and themes that make a riveting tale."
76,"A solemn, gods-fearing Dwarvish carpenter. They call him the Pious Benchmaker, which baffles him. His wife is of somewhat better cheer, but tolerates no nonsense in her house. The furniture is first-rate. You could hit it with a battle-hammer and it wouldn't dent."
77,"An Aasimar mattress-maker. Laments his own misfortune: his mattresses are so good, he either sleeps on them and can't get himself out of bed, or he sleeps on a couch or armchair and doesn't sleep well. It's a DC X Strength save to get off his guest-beds (the best ones, for he's quite hospitable), where X is 10 plus the number of days since the sleeper has been in a normal bed instead of a bedroll or cot."
78,"A slightly unhinged half-orc scholar. He's studying all sorts of bizarre phenomena at once, and keeps a wall covered in notes, sketches, and pieces of twine connecting them. The statistical anomalies of coin flips, the way the planet is tilted, all those sorts of things. Frequently becomes so engrossed in his studies he forgets to eat."
79,"A ratcatcher who is quite ferocious in his task. He's got mousetraps all over the place, and hundreds of rat skulls nailed to his wall. Grim, adamant, and talks at length about what utter vermin rodents are."
80,"A friendly, jocular doppelganger illusionist and it's tame mimic pets. The house appears to have a large staff of servants and much finely-made furniture..."
81,"A gnomish Expert Clown. He doesn't just study mere tossing and tumbling, mind you. He studies the psychology of clowning. What makes a pie to the face so funny? Or what is the thrill-inducing factor of juggling eggs? He can tell you. He can tell you for several hours."
82,"A human stone-carver and his teenage son. The son's a little worried about his father, as the latter seems to be losing interest in the craft. Their house is full of half-finished works."
83,"A high elf mask-maker. It's a delicate craft, she'll tell you. Fey come to call every so often, picking up their masks but also staying to chat with her a bit. So do some actors. And one or two assassins."
84,"A scruffy human gravedigger. He isn't exactly a philosopher, but tends to make incisive remarks about mortality and time. Doesn't like elves, because they don't give him business."
85,"An old man with a bald head and gleaming eyes. If asked, he only gives his profession as 'chemist', and spends a lot of time in his lab. He's less harmless than he seems; he's the master poison-brewer for a local assassin's guild. If he's found out, he calls in his allies on whoever discovered his true identity."
86,"A young couple of a Tiefling and an Aasimar. Their ancestors didn't like the marriage much, and it couldn't exactly get officiated by a priest (but the local marriage law did allow for a Fey to do the job). They're getting along fine."
87,"A pious couple who are gravely concerned about their young daughter. She claims to see 'shadowy people' in the cellar, and apparently brought the family dog back to life. They're both nearly nervous wrecks, and priests of every Good god have been coming and going all week to try and exorcise the child."
88,"A white-haired old man and his shrill wife, both the village healers, although the Mr. recently got fired by the prince whose father he used to work for."
89,A playwright who is outraged at his rivals trying to spread the rumor that his work was ghostwritten for him. Insists on reading off sonnets and scenes to the guests to prove that he's genuine.
90,"A grizzled, scarred town guard. He's only in during the day, usually asleep, and spends the nights walking the streets and smoking very particular cheap cigars. Moody but not hostile."
91,"A 'professional quest-giver' who pampers the heroes with everything he can. He's in kahoots with a local dungeon-lord, and gets a share of the armor, weapons and loot of the heroes killed in the dungeon he directs them towards. He'll take to the hills if he's found out."
92,"A young priestess of a god of the wilds. Her house is on the very outskirts of town, and has a terrible case of rats, which she doesn't mind as long as they don't bother the guests. Rats that do bother the guests get speared. She doesn't take nonsense, but has some sense of humor."
93,"A Kenku minstrel who rents a room above the tavern he performs in. It's covered in posters from his 'glory-days'- although a keen eye (DC 15 Investigation) will note that they're actually other bards' posters, with the minstrel's name altered into them."
94,"An apprentice baker and his wife, a schoolteacher. Their house was a cheap deal, and is a little run-down but still serviceable. Gets a little drafty, though."
95,"A Kobold who claims to be an architect and interior designer. Actually, she's a dungeon planner who designs catacombs, lairs and castles galore. Highly sought-after by evil overlords, and frantically tries to direct them away while the guests are there. If she's found out, she'll flee to the safety of one of her closer creations."
96,"A Swordsmith who has been at it for years. He keeps a display case of splintered, shattered or blunted swords recovered from various dungeons and battlefields, each with the tale of a fallen hero attached to it."
97,"A halfling gourmand with an affinity for candies. He's a longstanding foe of witches who use his creations, or mockeries thereof, to lure children into their cook-pots."
98,"A Dwarvish family of four- father, mother, son, daughter -who are rather new in town. Hospitable, but the house is still full of moving crates. The father is a lumberjack, the mother is a stay-at-home parent."
99,"The High Priest of a local shrine of the god of travelers and messengers. He's an unmatched source of information, references and road maps, and will greet anybody with a smile so long as they return the favor."
100,"An old Elvish couple. The husband spends most of his time golfing or whittling, the wife is busy giving advice to her newly-married daughter. They live in a nice old house, although there's a ghost in the attic. Don't worry, it's very polite during the day, and it can't leave the attic."

d100,Entry

1,You grow feathers all over your body.
2,You feel your body begin to change! You are turned into a tiny frog for 1d4 days.
3,You fall in love with the first living thing you see.
4,"Your skin begins to turn a sickly green, and you gain the ability to breathe underwater for 1d4 hours. You also lose the ability to breathe outside of water for the time limit!"
5,You grow gills on your neck. You can breathe underwater for 1d4 hours.
6,You can only speak in lies for 1d4 days.
7,"The content of the potion is a literal soul! If you try to drink it, you must succeed on a DC 13 CON saving throw or your soul will be swapped for 1d10 days."
8,"Your skin begins to glow, creating a 25ft. aura of light around you."
9,You forget how to read for 1d4 days.
10,You gain the effects of gaseous form for 1d4 hours.
11,"You gain a vague, mystical vision of the future."
12,Your skin turns pale and your blood stops pumping. You become undead for 1d4 hours.
13,Your body turns to stone for 1d4 days.
14,Your hair turns the color of the potion you drank.
15,"You are filled with courage, making you immune to fear effects for 1d4 days."
16,You feel your tongue begin to twist. You can only speak in rhyme for 1d4 hours.
17,You lose your shadow permanently.
18,You switch to the opposite gender.
19,The potion gives you resistance to cold damage for 1d4 hours.
20,You begin to hover one foot off the ground for 1d4 hours.
21,You suddenly feel another arm growing out of your back. This third arm lasts for 1d4 days before it falls off. It functions as a normal arm.
22,The potion gives you resistance to radiant damage for 1d4 hours.
23,You can speak to animals for 1d4 hours.
24,You gain 1d10 hit points each round for 1d4 rounds.
25,You don't need to sleep for 1d8 days.
26,You are cured of any diseases that you have.
27,Your fingers become completely flaccid for 1d4 hours. You cannot hold anything in your hands.
28,You begin to have dark visions of an elder god. You fall under the effects of Fear for 1d4 hours.
29,All tattoos on your body vanish.
30,"Spiked vines begin growing out of your body for 1d4 days. If a creature touches you, they take 1d4 damage."
31,"You grow a third eye in the center of your forehead, increasing your perception skill by 2."
32,You are instantly resurrected if you are killed within 24 hours of drinking this potion.
33,"You become extremely physically ugly for 1d4 hours, losing 2 points of CHA."
34,Your size shrinks by 1d4 feet for 1d4 hours.
35,The potion gives you resistance to force damage for 1d4 hours.
36,The potion gives you resistance to lightning damage for 1d4 hours.
37,Your skin begins to harden at an alarming rate. You are turned to stone for 1d4 hours.
38,"Your skin turns to metal for 1d4 hours, giving you resistance to martial attacks."
39,Mushrooms begin to grow out of your head.
40,You feel incredibly strong! You now have the strength of a Frost Giant (23 STR) for 1d4 hours.
41,You can understand all languages for 1d4 hours.
42,You cannot tell a lie for 1d4 days.
43,You regain all of your spell slots.
44,"You are able to pass through walls that are 1ft. thick, like a ghost."
45,"When you drink this potion, you gain the effect of the detect thoughts spell (save DC 13)."
46,You suddenly forget the last language you spoke for 1d4 days.
47,The ends of your fingers become very sticky. You can now climb walls for 1d4 hours.
48,You are instantly teleported to the nearest body of water.
49,You lose your reflection permanently.
50,The potion gives you resistance to psychic damage for 1d4 hours.
51,Your hair has the effect of being underwater permanently.
52,You instantly become 1d6 years older
53,You can speak with plants for 1d4 hours.
54,You gain double your speed for 1d6 rounds.
55,The potion gives you resistance to fire damage for 1d4 hours.
56,Drinking this potion has allowed your consciousness to be noticed by a random deity! You have one chance to ask any yes or no question.
57,"You begin to secret a substance that is very similar to gasoline. Be careful, you are extremely flammable!"
58,You have horrific hallucinations of demons coming after you for 1d4 hours. You are under the effect of Fear!
59,Your hair color changes to a random color.
60,All of your inner thoughts are audibly heard for 1d4 hours.
61,The potion gives you resistance to poison damage for 1d4 hours.
62,You can cast Fire Breath for 1d4 hours.
63,Your pupils disappear! You are blinded for 1d4 hours.
64,Your hair triples in length.
65,You suddenly feel more drunk than you've ever been. You're gonna have a BAD hangover in the morning!
66,You begin to grow insect mandibles on your face that last for 1d4 days.
67,"Wings sprout out of your back, allowing you to fly for 1d4 hours."
68,Your eye color changes to a random color.
69,You fall asleep for 1d4 days.
70,You can smell gold from 50ft. away for 1d4 days.
71,You become transparent like a ghost for 1d6 hours.
72,Your mouth vanishes for 1d4 hours. You are unable to speak.
73,You can suddenly hear the thoughts of those around you in your head! You gain the effect of the Detect Thoughts spell.
74,You turn invisible for 1d4 hours.
75,You take on the form of a water elemental for 1d4 hours.
76,You transform into a random race.
77,Your body feels incredibly tired. You gain 2 levels of exhaustion.
78,Your size grows by 1d4 feet for 1d4 hours.
79,You are able to cast a random cantrip for 1d4 days.
80,Your skin color changes to a random color.
81,You feel like you have springs in your feet! You can jump four times your normal jumping height for 1d4 hours.
82,The potion gives you resistance to acid damage for 1d4 hours.
83,You grow a beautiful ginger beard down to your knees.
84,Your hair color changes depending on your mood.
85,Your AC increases by 1d4 for 1d4 hours.
86,You create a clone of yourself every time you sneeze that lasts for 1d4 minutes.
87,You begin to vomit a swarm of angry insects. You can control them for 1d4 hours.
88,You grow goat horns from the sides of your head.
89,"You begin to emit an odd musk from your skin, attracting wild animals to your location."
90,You gain 1d12 temporary hit points.
91,"Your hands and feet grow webbing, allowing you to travel much faster in water."
92,The potion gives you resistance to necrotic damage for 1d4 hours.
93,You gain a shiny film over your eyes. You can see in the dark for 1d4 hours.
94,You lose all of your spell slots for the day.
95,All the hair on your body falls off.
96,You instantly become 1d6 years younger.
97,You completely forget the last 24 hours.
98,You are instantly teleported to the location you found the potion.
99,Your breath is now a light flurry of snow.
100,"For the next 1d4 hours, fire damage heals you instead of hurts you."

d100,Entry

1,"This wooden door has begun to rot away, leaving sizable holes in the center. Players can easily peer past the rotten wood and see what's on the other side."
2,"This stone door is open by a lever. When opening, the door parts in the center. The left section slides up into the ceiling, while the right section slides down into the floor."
3,This wide iron door revolves clockwise.
4,"This stone, circular door is covered with carvings of snakes. The only way to open it is to pull the circle out of its base, and slide it to the side."
5,"To the left and right of this iron door are two statues of falcons. If the left falcon's head is pushed down, the door swings open. If the right is pushed down, the stone falcons come to life and attack. The door will then remain locked."
6,There is a bronze hand reaching out from the door. The door opens if someone shakes the hand.
7,A view of a room you would be expecting can be seen through the glass panels in the door. This is only an illusion.
8,"The door is made of sheer black material, much like a veil. Using a light source against it makes it billow inwards."
9,"A worked brass door that depicts a world map (the one they are in, another one, or a fictional one). The doorknob is in the center of the compass rose. In addition to the decorative points in the cardinal and inter-cardinal (ordinal) directions there is a slightly raised arrow/pointer that can be rotated and an audible click can be heard when it aligns with a point on the compass rose. (Feel free to have it be a 16 or even 32 wind compass rose if you prefer, or perhaps just the cardinal directions). Each position makes it so the door opens to a different room. The map could provide clues as to which direction unlocks which room. For example there could be a fiery desert to the east and when pointed east the door leads to a kitchen, a room trapped with fireballs, a room filled with fire elementals, etc and to the northwest shows a depiction of a mermaid in the ocean and the door opens to a room with a siren inside when the arrow is in the northwest position, etc."
10,"A large rusty iron door with no obvious locks or handle. Upon the the surface is a rusty bar of iron from which four heavy chains are tangled in a large knot. The end of each chain has a cap that fits over a small peg. There are 6 pegs and four are covered by the caps on the end of the chains. The door only unlocks when the chains are untangled, however once removing a cap a strong (magnetic? Magic?) force pulls the cap to the pegs. Strength or force of will allows adventures to decide which peg the cap goes to, but they cannot just have the chains free and be able to easily untangle the chains. (Inspired by those silly 3D tangle/knot apps)"
11,"A narrow stone door with an ear carved in it and words above that read “Tell Me A Secret To Proceed”. When a secret is whispered into the stone ear, a demonic entity hears the secret and knows the identity of the person who speaks it. However a successful strength check of a moderate DC will allow for door to be simply pushed open, no secret required."
12,"A beautiful glass barrier, etched with glorious floral designs depicting three specific flowers (example asters, orchids, and pansies) but has no obvious means to open. Speaking the names of the three different etched flowers causes the door to silently swing open. However it is still glass and is easily shattered, but doing so alerts the denizens of the dungeon of the adventurers location."
13,A wooden door with a golden sun emblazoned on it and below that a horizon line. No matter what is attempted the door can not be destroyed or opened unless it is roughly the time of day indicated by position of sun image to the horizon. You could have several doors like this and means to “suggest” short or long rests to the players.
14,"A silver door adorned in embossed circles. A clever bard or musician could picture musical notation staves among the the circles and with a bit of experimentation find the most melodic arrangement (or discordant!) and once that arrangement is played or sung, the door opens."
15,A frozen door. The door is literally frozen shut. PCs have to find a way to heat the edges of the door before it can be opened.
16,"A heavy stone door that opens by raising into the ceiling. There is a wench used to open the door, however it's extremely difficult to turn. In several rooms of the dungeon, in recesses in the wall there are large chains with hooks suspended over a deep pit. Throughout the dungeon there are 100 lbs stone statues that are meant to be hung on the chains. These are the counterweights for the door. Each one decreases the difficulty of turning the wench by 1."
17,Airlock doors. A set of doors on either side of a room. For one door to open the other door has to be closed.
18,"Fake door. It looks like a locked door, however it's actually just part of the wall."
19,Iris door made of metal plates that rotate into position to open or close the door. Door is operated by a lever that makes a hissing noise when the door is opening or closing.
20,"Light illusion door. In the dark the 'door' appears to be a dimly glowing door, that behaves like a normal door. The presence of any bright light source overpowers the door, so that all that can be seen is a wall where the door should be. In bright light, the wall behaves just like a normal wall."
21,Metal grating door. The door is made of metal grating. The PCs or dungeon denizens could take advantage of this to shoot through the door or thrust spears through the door.
22,Multi-lock door. The door has multiple locks on it. The keys for the door have to all be turned at the same time or the locks remain locked.
23,"Multi-lock door. The door has multiple locks on it. The locks have to be (unlocked, picked) in the correct order. If one is done out of sequence all the other locks relock."
24,"The 'door' is actually a bunch of vines or roots that block a doorway. The plant reacts to the presence of a specific magic item by moving it's (roots, vines) out of the way. A druid might be able to use speak with plants and convince the plant to move."
25,The 'door' is actually a heavily armored living creature. PC have to learn the commands to make it move or find some other way to lure it away from the doorway. A druid might be able to use speak with animal and convince the creature to move.
26,"The 'door' is a colony of insects that have locked themselves together to form a door. They will disperse if (the correct pheromones can be found and wafted in front of them / the PCs tap or click in the correct pattern). Attacking the 'door' will release an attack pheromone, that will alert the rest of the colony."
27,"The 'door' is a (drawing, engraving, painting, relief) on the wall. It becomes a real door if (the correct command is given / it is touched by the correct magic talisman / a missing piece is drawn or inserted)."
28,The door is a giant metal cog set in a groove in the floor. A lever makes the cog rotate into the open or closed position.
29,The door is a giant stone disk set in a groove in the floor.
30,The 'door' is just a large boulder that the very strong creature pulls in front of its doorway.
31,"The door is made of bones and has a skull set in the center of it. May be enchanted so that, if opened without the correct (key, talisman), the bones disentangle themselves to form several skeleton warriors."
32,Tiny door. The door is only about 1ft by 1ft. Medium sized PCs with a Str score above 15 wont fit through the door. Also any medium creature attempting to go through the door will have to remove their armor and gear to fit through the doorway.
33,A door with a sentient stone face that will speak to adventuers and only open for: A story A song If they say please If they tell the door they want it to open If they swear fealty to Sir Stonedoor the Hinge Knight
34,"A door made of iron bars, which are electrified. A hidden lever opens the door."
35,A door made of glass with several bells hanging from both sides. Any intruders would definitely regret smashing it and alerting the dungeon monsters.
36,A doorframe with crystals on its edges which create a constant wall of fire. A magic password can be used to deactivate it for a short period of time.
37,A circular iron door that opens in six segments.
38,"A magical door made from flowing water, but as solid as a real one, until it is 'unlocked', then you just push thru and get soaked."
39,Half of a door suspended in space. Only one side exists in this reality. Trying to walk around the back reveals only air.
40,"A doorway is filled with odorless, opaque black smoke. There is no heat, nor apparent source of the smoke, rising from the bottom of the door frame, and dissipating at the top. It can just barely be seen through at the top as the smoke fades. Trying to pass through the smoke door causes fire damage and repels the creature. To dispel the smoke, an intruder must make enough air movement to completely part it. This effect does not last forever, and the smoke re-emerges after a few seconds."
41,"A tattered curtain closes this doorway, originally a heavy high quality damask of burgundy and gold it it moth eaten and ragged at the bottom. Dust and moths flutter as you move it aside."
42,The wooden door is unlocked but the swollen wood makes it jam into the doorway. It needs a strength check to open.
43,"The door is locked the key is in the other side of the lock, there is a gap underneath the door sufficient to hook the key through once it is knocked out of the door."
44,"This circular ivory door is inlaid with silver filigree depicting the Moon Goddess and the phases of the moon. The door opens according to the phase from fully open on a new moon to fully closed on a full moon. A medium sized creature can fit through the door only from a half to new moon, small creatures down to a quarter moon."
45,This door is a standing coffin in a room packed to the rafters with standing coffins in various states of disrepair.
46,"A door which is shaped to match the dimensions of a certain creature, such as a kobold, goblin, or any dungeon creepy-crawlies. Opening the door may reveal a similarly shaped hallway which leads to the den or the hideout of the specific creature. Or, maybe the door is well hidden enough for the creature to ambush the party."
47,The double doors have a hinge at the center top of the door.
48,The doors swing to the sides and up forming a triangular opening.
49,The door pivots around a column in the floor.
50,"Toll Door. There is a coin slot in the door. If a copper is inserted the door opens a crack, you can see whats on the other side, you might be able to shoot through the door, but you cant squeeze through the opening. If a silver is inserted into the door, the door open enough for small creatures to pass through. If a gold is inserted, the door opens enough for medium creatures to pass through the door. If a platinum is inserted, the door opens enough for a large creature to pass through."
51,"The Unattached door. A wooden door lying of the floor of the dungeon. If the door is places on the correct wall of the dungeon it becomes a door allowing passage through the wall. There are several places where the door could be attached, some of them are traps."
52,Door missing a door handle. The door handle can be found elsewhere in the dungeon. Depending on where the door handle is placed on the door determines where the door leads.
53,Riddle Door. The door has a series of pictograph combination locks. There is a riddle on the door that describes the correct combination. If the incorrect combination is entered it triggers various traps around the door.
54,The psychic test door. The door has something written on it like 'you must face your fears.' If a PC touches the door they suddenly enter a mental landscape filled with something they fear. If they defeat their fear they just appear on the opposite side of the door.
55,"This heavy iron door is carved with Dwarvish runes. The door swings noiselessly on it's rusted hinges. Upon entering the room, the door closes behind and absolute silence descends. No noise can penetrate into the room from outside."
56,"An iron door. Etched into the iron is a figure of a human male brandishing a long sword. Next to it are etched the words: 'A peerless perloiner could never pick this lock, yet a wiley wizard scarce need to knock. A flick of the wrist and arcane from the tongue to magically trammel. Now the lock is undone!' If Hold Person is cast on the figure on the door, the door will open."
57,"A simple puzzle, good for new players. A door of white gold. In the upper left corner is a decorative sun. In the upper right, a swirling cloud dropping rain. From the center and arcing up towards the cloud are seven golden flower sculptures, each missing its gynoecium (center). About a foot below the flowers is small shelf. Upon it there is an emerald, a sapphire, a orange tourmaline, a ruby, a yellow topaz, an amethyst, and a blue chalcedony. Place the stones in the flowers, starting with the ruby in the bottom and go up in rainbow order (ROY G BIV) to unlock the door. The gems can be real or cut glass. The can be retrievable or not."
58,"A rusty metal door with a Dragon Chess board coming off it. There are stone pieces for the game set in starting formation. If someone moves a piece, the 'door' will move one. Winning against the door opens it."
59,"A simple wooden door. it opens as expected, but behind it is just more wall. The inside of the door is painted like a baroque rug. Successfully examining the door (Investigate DC 15) reveals small handholds on the sides of the frame and that bottom of the frame is attached to a hinges. The door can be pulled down. Now on the floor, the design is facing up. Opening the door now reveals stairs going down."
60,"A door made of thick leaded glass with a glue chip pattern resembling frost. Bringing a heat source near it and the 'frost' melts away revealing a faint image of a hand. Placing a hand on the image, the door opens."
61,A curtain of polished steel chain links hangs from heavy steel rings mounted on a solid steel rod.
62,"Pay Wall: The door is in fact a mimic. The mimic can talk, and has a taste for coins and magic items instead of humanoid flesh. When he reveals himself to the PCs, he will offer them the service of opening for them if they give him a steep toll of gold. The PCs may have to haggle with him for a lower price. Magic items can also be used to lower the price; however, any magic item he eats is gone forever. PCs must pay the door to go through from the other side as well."
63,"The door appears to be a wooden/iron gate, but actually, it is giant clockwork construct. There are many carvings and symbols on it but they are all a distraction. To open the door, you should blow air into the pipe on the door. A whistle is blown, many gears are heard turning, and the door slowly opens."
64,The door is a writhing mass of flesh the constantly regenerates and attacks those who comes too close. Fire seemed to be effective in stunning it and stopping it's regeneration.
65,An empty doorway filled with a thick sheet of ice - can be melted or operated with a nearby lever which is connected to a series of pulleys and ropes.
66,"A revolving door that leads to the next chamber. However, if you don't exit the door straight through and follow it 360 degrees back to where you came from, you enter a hidden chamber instead."
67,"This doorway seems to be blocked by rubble. In a few places near the top, a faint blue light shines through the fallen stones."
68,"A door that appears to be invisible and shows the room inside, but when the door is opened, its a completely different room."
69,"A metallic door with no handle or keyhole, that melts when exposed to a source of heat."
70,"A mimic that has been cursed to take the form of a door, but does everything it can to inconvenience users."
71,"A doorway that slowly absorbs the mass of anything it touches, growing ever larger. Feeding it enough material will allow a person to slip beneath the widening gap at its base."
72,An unspeakably filthy door that opens of its own accord when thoroughly cleaned.
73,"A humming door. It opens when someone harmonizes with it, and shatters violently if they're off-key."
74,A heavy metal door with a small barred window. One side of the door is completely covered in large claw marks. Something tried to get through this door at one point and the door held.
75,"A wooden door with extremely rusty hinges. Any attempt to open the door, without first oiling the hinges, will make a loud metallic screeching noise that will alert any nearby creatures."
76,"A door of tightly fitted oak planks, carved with images of acorns, and iron bands in the shape of a chain of stylized oak leaves."
77,"A great, single, solid slab of marble, decorated with a frieze portraying victory by a king. It is cleverly designed to slide smoothly into a pocket in the wall."
78,"A very tall Iron and granite door that is magically enchanted to play a form of Tetris-like falling blocks game to unlock. The 'screen' is made from inlays of Ivory, Lapis Lazuli, Gold, etc. There is even a 'High Score' chart, which one is required to achieve before it opens."
79,"This is an very large Adamantine vault door with 128 small alphanumeric dials made of polished brass and adamantine, with functional clockwork inlay and etching, clearly influenced by Modron aesthetics. A sufficiently random, arbitrary sequence of prime numbers in hexatridecimal is required to open the door. It is magically enchanted to use the spell 'SENDING' up to 5 times per day to say cutting, vulgar, mean, and highly insulting things at you until you discover a sequence that will open it. According to records, it has never repeated an insult, and it seems almost malevolently intelligent, and once you try to open it will never forget and never cease messaging until you solve its puzzle, or die trying."
80,"A magnetic door that pulls any PC wearing metal armor towards it as well as any who are wielding metal weapons. It requires strength check to resist it's pull when within 10 feet of the door or to pass through it's frame. Once on the other side, it pushes against those wearing or wielding metal, such that they move 2x their speed away from the door until they are 10 feet away from the door. For fun, you could have this effect reverse randomly."
81,"A technically enhanced door that has 4 lights (red, green, yellow, and blue) instead of a keyhole. The lights light up in a sequence that must be repeated accurately to gain entrance."
82,"A heavy wooden door with a hundred keyholes, only one of which will open with a key. The correct keyhole switches every time the would-be guest/s step more than 10 ft. away from it."
83,A wooden door inset with golden filigree that only opens if the party says 'please'.
84,A metal door stamped with a large lightning bolt across it's face. The door is electrified and gives a shock to any who tries to open it by physical touch.
85,An ornately carved door depicting a mighty oak upon a hill. The door has been crafted from ancient oak timbers with thick iron banding and a large bone handle.
86,"A small red metal door with numerous outward-facing dents, secured by a large padlock shaped like a heart."
87,"A door with a handle that has four colors, each color goes to a different room."
88,"A completely smooth, cold, marble slab. Opens when exposed to body heat. Reveals a small room, once used as a refuge to hide from the undead."
89,A door made from a loose flap of Dragon Hide.
90,A door made from a sawn shell-plate of a dragon-turtle. It is slightly translucent.
91,"A door made of tempered glass with runes carved on the edges when looking through the door the players see a room deeper in the dungeon, however, once the party opens the door the room that is sequentially next is on the other side. Once on the other side if the party looks back through they see one of the rooms they previously passed through."
92,A crude pile of half rotted wooden slabs banded with rusty straps. The door and overhead lintlepeice are painted with a magic rune that shimmers like opalecent rainbow.
93,A piece of chalk hangs by a string from the wall. A small note tied to the string reads 'Don't forget to knock.'
94,"Three identical doors with ornate doorknobs adorn the wall. All three are locked, no keyholes visible. Turning 2 knobs at once causes the 3rd to unlock and swing open. If it is the correct door, it will stay open until closed. If it is the incorrect door, it will slam shut and the doors will randomly swap places."
95,"A door with a mirrored surface. No handle is visible upon inspection. The door perfectly reflects what is in front of it. Only in complete darkness may the door be passed through. Extinguishing all light and removing the doors ability to reflect anything will cause the door to de-materialize. Any source of light will cause the door to reappear and block the path. Any form of Darkvision must be blocked as well, those who possess it must close their eyes, drop the spell, etc..."
96,"A knobless wooden door, covered in small holes. 3/4 of the way up the door is a very ratty old dart board. Stuck randomly in the door are 3 darts. Scoring a bullseye will open the door, but only if thrown from a certain distance. Distance to be determined by the GM."
97,"A perfectly normal, open door. Completely wide open. But it looks just like a door in your life that you have only ever seen closed. You know this door is open, but looking at it; you can't get passed the feeling that the door is, and always has been closed. You refuse to walk through it until someone performs the 'opening the door for you' gesture. (Basically the dog not accepting that the sliding door is, in fact, open.)"
98,"The door has a large keyhole in the center of it and on the other side of the room is a sentient stone head with a key as their nose. In order to open the door, the PCs must trick the head into telling a lie, when they do so the nose extends and unlocks the door."
99,"A somewhat cracked looking wooden door. The door actually has a severe case of dry rot. If someone tries the handle, it just falls off the door. If anyone applies enough force to open the door, the door just crumbles to dust and splinters."
100,"The door is made from one solid piece of an unusual substance (bone, ceramic, chitin, obsidian, monster scale)."

d100,Entry

1,They have antlers.
2,They can only reproduce every five hundred years.
3,Their native language is entirely sung. It takes a long time for them to learn to speak like other peoples do.
4,They share the raising of children within the community. It's considered taboo to ask who your biological parents are.
5,They invented gunpowder and are skilled musketeers.
6,"The elves are territorial, and have an empathic connection with the rest of their tribe. This trait is given through the birthplace rather than blood."
7,"They do not bleed. Legend has it that it was made so through a wish granted to an elven hero, who swore that not a single drop of elven blood would ever be spilled again."
8,"The elves do not sleep, but rather hibernate for 500 moons every 200 years. Every settlement has elaborate sleeping chambers decorated with intricate flowery strokes going back thousands of years; before going to sleep, an elf makes another stroke. Disturbing an elf's sleep is considered a grave offense to the entire elvenkind."
9,"They have hollow bones, like birds. This makes them extremely light, but also brittle."
10,They are born old and grow younger as they age.
11,"Their language has no tenses, as they have no concept of the passage of time."
12,Their communities are out of phase with reality and only appear during specific astrological phenomena. Elves who leave their home village may never find it again.
13,They sing to trees to produce and shape wood. Cutting wood from a tree or carving wood is a grievous sin with the punishment of death.
14,They must spend at least one hour a day in pristine natural surroundings or they begin to wither and will eventually die.
15,"Bad news makes them laugh. 'He was murdered in front of his children? BWahahaaahaaa, that's grotesque! Hahaha. That poor child will be scarred for life.'"
16,"Late at night they enter a deep state of sleep for about 5 minutes. During this time their consciousness leaves their body to witness events happening around the world, but when they wake only a single image of what they saw remains in their mind."
17,"Elves were originally created by some vampire lord, using the humans living in his kingdom as a herd of breeding stock; similar to how humans created different breeds of dogs. The vampire was originally aiming for just a better tasting food source; the grace and longevity was just a happy side effect. The offshoot breed of dark elves was created when the vampire's taint was mixed in by feeding on pregnant elves or having children with them, resulting in a weakness to sunlight."
18,"Elven education is based around initially students learning every discipline and subject possible and being forced to drop out of any subject in which they fall behind their peers. When they drop their final subject, they pursue this subject as a profession. Those that never drop out of a subject end up teaching it, while those who drop out entirely before adulthood are destined to do whatever work is needed, and are dismissed as failures by other elves."
19,"They frown upon the use of weapons in combat as barbaric, and exclusively fight with magic."
20,"They are extremely jealous of great works of art made by other races, and even go to war in order to destroy them."
21,"Their music uses a 33-note scale, making it sound alien and overwhelming to non-elves. Bards often rewrite elven melodies in a more usual 12-note scale, but elves are terribly offended by such practices."
22,"The Soli elves have bronze skin, bright blue hair, and emerald eyes and absorb vital life essence and strength for their magics from sunlight. The Lunelin elves have silver skin, black hair, and amethyst eyes and absorb vital life essence and strength for their magics from moonlight."
23,"Their religious beliefs prevent them from touching bare earth, and they live in a network of treehouses. Only Earth clerics can touch earth without being cursed."
24,"The ghosts of their ancestors exist among them, telling ancient stories and guiding young ones."
25,They get a new name added for every part of life they reach.
26,They're a plant based lifeform.
27,They are extremely family oriented as they live hundreds of years and can have tens of generations in the same household. There are even small towns made solely out of single families.
28,"They are born normally but as the reach middle age they begin to show signs of becoming a tree; leaves in their hair, eyebrows and beard. Skin wears off joints and knuckles revealing bark. Their fingernails turn hard and dark until eventually they are entirely made of wood and remain motionless forever becoming a part of nature. Some elves tend to return to their family burial grove to join their ancestors resulting in forests of trees shaped like people."
29,"It's thought that there are very few Elves in the world, and they have extraordinarily long lifespans. This isn't true. There are actually many Elves with very short lifespans. It's just that there are a limited number of Elf 'designs'. When an Elf dies, another Elf of that model takes his or her place. That's why Elves have a reputation of being haughty and aloof; they haven't forgotten your name, they just haven't met you yet."
30,"Everyone gets facial tattoos based on your 'tribe'. Only the ruling family does not have these tattoos, signifying that they belong to all the people."
31,Elves are a mutation that occurs infrequently in human babies.
32,"They are affected by a mysterious plague, that is slowly killing all of them."
33,They have three fingers and a thumb on those hands. Their feet are more like hands that are attached to their ankles.
34,"Every tooth is pointed and their nails are exceptionally tough, but not for hunting, for climbing trees and eating/stripping bark."
35,They lay a clutch of eggs. All elves are capable of either laying their own clutch or fertilizing another's.
36,"Some of them, under the right circumstances, with evolve a set of insectoid wings. Some grow small plates of chitin like birthmarks or freckles."
37,"Male and females are very hard to tell apart when clothed, even for elves."
38,"They're still quite proper and noble, but have no qualms with eating the corpses of other races."
39,Their society is more like 1800s US south.
40,"They are insects - there are bee elves, ant elves, grasshopper elves etc."
41,They are invaders from another dimension.
42,They have no language- communicating entirely via empathy.
43,"They are a culture of wanderers, explorers, traders and raiders. Their Swan Ships bring fear in the hearts of men, for who knows what the Aelfar bring? Today they might bring magical toys to delight children, tomorrow they come with stories to entice and lure the youth to the seas, but we remember yesterday for the came with spell and steel and harrowed our village, stole our wives and husbands away for their slaves and took our silver and gold. Be afraid when the high horn calls, for it may be the first of the attacks of the Aelfar!"
44,All sustenance is liquid-based mash/paste as it unseemly to chew like animal or beast.
45,"All the language used is visual based sign and body language as they have no voice box to speak, yell, or sing. Instruments are seldom seen or heard."
46,All minor and major wounds inflict scars do not heal on them and they cover it up with constant application of illusion magic.
47,"Slavery is the cornerstone of their civilization and all work is done by slaves except for war, education, and government functions. A yearly purge is held to keep slaves in line after several riots one millennium ago almost lead to reformation of traditional Elven way of life."
48,"As all elvenkind lost their eyes to a unknown and forgotten eldritch god, they now have unparalleled senses of smell, hearing, and taste. They operate like a mix of a blind bat and a snake as they echo-locate and smell/taste the air for tracking. They are still semi-regal but have no concept of fashion other than texture and scent."
49,"They are siege experts in breaking a siege and outlasting besieging forces. They will do anything to achieve their goals, even if the means to achieve it is horrific and uncontrollable."
50,They remain pregnant with children for four years exactly to the moment of conception.
51,They have Kaleidoscope eyes.
52,They don't have pointy ears.
53,They're cannibalistic.
54,"When 'killed', an Elf can be brought back to life by returning the body to its 'Soul Tree'. A sacrifice is made at the base of the tree and the sacrificial soul lures the Elvin soul back to the body. These Soul Trees are kept in a sacred grove that is fanatically protected by the forest elders and their Druidic apprentices. If a Soul Tree is damaged, the Elf to whom it belongs will be aware of it, regardless of distance, even on another plane of existence. If the Soul Tree is destroyed, the Elf will live on, but can never be resurrected again."
55,The elves long lifespan is actually a combination of the lifespans of several different spirits. An elf with go through brief transition periods when it is time for them to be inhabited by a new spirit. They take new names after this transition.
56,"Their life cycle starts as a seed, which grows into a small plant, that blooms a single flower, out of which a tiny elf with butterfly wings emerges. They grow to the size of humans over 100 years, losing their wings at age 50."
57,Their skin has animal patterns.
58,"They live in the forests for the use of lumber as a resource, not some kind of magical connection."
59,"They came from the stars, being a race that travels between different worlds (they're aliens.)"
60,They eschew magic in favor of physical prowess.
61,"Their eyes are sensitive to sunlight. As they live long lives, they spend most of that time indoors and away from common races. As a result, this arrogant race can hardly stand the sunlight."
62,They only hunt and eat intelligent prey.
63,"They are the gods, grown small and weak."
64,They are descended from the gods - their power depends on mortal belief.
65,Their personalities change with the phases of the moon.
66,They are the world’s great explorers and traders.
67,They believe that to slay another with a weapon that leaves the hand is a terrible sin.
68,"They are actually a subspecies of fawn, with the legs of a goat, deer, or antelope and the horns to match."
69,"They are sexually dimorphic, the males are 8+ foot tall hulking behemoths and the females are human sized and they live in pride's similar to lions with the male being the primary protective force of the pride when intruders encroach on their territory. Or the opposite!"
70,"They are fallen angels who have abandoned the divine gods that condemned them to the mortal coil, instead pursuing the call of nature."
71,"They made a pact with Dragons long ago, and are now adorned with colored tattoos of their ancestor's overlords. They also have a once per shot rest breath attack."
72,Their biology changes depending on what kind of magic they practice.
73,"As Elves age they slowly begin to turn into a tree, the elves then make their houses upon their ancestor’s tree forms."
74,"Elves began their species’ life as monsters who would steal children and eat them, over the past 200 years they have begun centralizing and stopped eating kids. There are still many wild Elf tribes left who still practice the old ways and are seen much like goblins. The Centralized Elves are trying very hard to get rid of their bad reputation."
75,"The Elves were sent down from the heavens to see that intelligent life would flourish on the planet but, were abandoned by those who sent them. The Elves through generations eventually forgot some of the reason they’re there but always remembered, they were abandoned."
76,"Elven is actually for the most part very similar to dolphin sounds. As well as this Elves can hear higher frequencies than any other intelligent species can, thus the sharp ears."
77,"Though Elves exist, many believe they are fake or just humans with sharper ears. Elves tend to get very offended when people say they don’t exist, and often hide their ears to avoid stupid questions. Elves still live longer and have magical powers, though people just believe it is just all elves looking alike and smoke and mirrors."
78,"They claim to be the first and oldest civilized race, this is wrong. They caused the downfall of their precursors causing their societies to collapse into savagery. An action they may repeat."
79,Their young bore into tree trunks and live parasitically until they emerge as adults.
80,Their eyes have vertical pupils.
81,Elves tree houses are a sickness made by creating and shaping galls and tumors in tree trunks.
82,"Each elf has a tiny bird, mammal, fish, reptile, or amphibian as a personal totem and gets one as a familiar."
83,Their skin changes color to match their background.
84,"All the different kinds of elves (drow wood and high) in their creation myth have them being created the first of all the elves and the others being perversions, or in the case of dark elves being betrayed and cursed for being the originals."
85,"Cutting hair is extremely taboo among elves and grows incredibly slow, being a good rough indicator of their age."
86,They’re very openly polyamorous.
87,The opinion of the youth is very valued in their society as with so long to live they respect opinions with the least amount of bias gathered over time.
88,They are connected to the land and the presence of other magical creatures interferes with the connection so (depending on the society) they either drive them off or kill them and burn all traces of it.
89,"Elves have compulsory wanderlust, they literally die if they don't see new places often. Drows are especially vulnerable to this and solve the problem by exploring the caves."
90,"All Elves are born from a single 'Life Tree.' The Life Tree blooms a Pod of Elves once a year, and all elves in a pod are identical. They are functionally immortal, only dying of traumatic injuries."
91,Their society is ruled by organizations that amount to magical research and development companies.
92,They have an extra eye in the middle of the forehead.
93,Married elves will never leave the confines of their homes until all their children can fend for themselves.
94,They are very over emotional and cannot hide their feelings at any given time.
95,"They have the most advanced knowledge of necromancy of every known race and practice it freely, letting their dead do the household chores and other physical labor."
96,"They are non binary, having as many genders as the leaves can have colors."
97,"Their skin reflects moonlight better than other materials, giving them an eerie glow on moonlit nights. Many of their holy rituals take place during full moon, and the unholy ones during new moon."
98,"Their long ears are actually a mark left by an ancient curse, the nature of which is closely guarded from outsiders. Shorter ears are considered more desirable."
99,"Elven books are circular, with pages fixed around a central spine like spokes of a wheel. They therefore have no beginning or end, and are kept in wooden cases to prevent damage."
100,"There's no Elves. That's it, there aren't any. Of course, there's loads of Elves in Fairytales and Legends, but no one has ever actually seen one. They're like the Yeti."

d100,Entry

1,"A lute that was carved from an enchanted tree. When played, the illusion of sheet music and music notes can be seen flowing around the player."
2,A set of reed pipes made by a Satyr. Their sweet and mysterious sound grants disadvantage on saving throws to resist being charmed by the musician.
3,"A vuvuzela that, when blown, sobers every person up within a 20 foot radius."
4,"A tuba that spits out water, the pressure is determined by the quality of the music."
5,A comically long recorder that's long enough to be used as a functioning quarter staff.
6,The Hydrophary - A species of aquatic plant that is vaguely octopus-shaped and can be played like a bagpipe. It wiggles its tentacles with delight when played.
7,"Any type of string instrument that, when the command word is spoken, turns into a type of axe. The size of the instrument decides what type of ax it is: violin is a handaxe, guitar and lute are battle-axe, and bass is a greataxe. Speak the command word again to revert back to instrument."
8,"The Phomenflumphen: You're not sure what this is. It appears to be equal parts accordion, bagpipe and drum. The Gnome playing it seems to know what they're doing though. Without training, all checks with this bizarre instrument are made at disadvantage."
9,A conductor’s baton that allows you to shift the pitch of someone talking to make it sound musical.
10,"Cetacean Song - An ocarina seemingly crafted from snowflake obsidian that produces some decently low notes, and is shaped somewhat like an aquatic animal of some sort (inspired by this)"
11,"Conductor's Instrumental - At first glance, it just looks like a typical conductor's baton. However, depending on the direction and speed it is moved, it will softly hum a note."
12,"Hidden Headbanger - It doesn't look like too much, just a simple polished wooden 6-string guitar. When a bard plays it, however, it sounds as if it were an overdriven electric guitar. Has a disclaimer on the bottom written in small text: 'FOR THOSE ABOUT TO ROCK'"
13,"Zamchroma - A zampogna with tubes made of a special glass that 'catch and toss' light that passes through them, giving them the appearance of being made of solidified and slowly shifting rainbows. It produces notes that echo very slightly, and overall sound heavenly or ethereal in nature."
14,A saxophone with special compartments for storing rations. A snacksophone.
15,"The Dread Lute - Found deep in a dungeon on the corpse of a powerful bard. The wood is rotting and the strings are long gone, but “playing” it still produces beautiful music, as if it were brand new."
16,"The Flute of Love - The mage who sold this to you said it would make any listener fall in love. That doesn’t seem to be true, but any music you try to play comes out as the same love song, every single time."
17,"Goblin Drums - A pair of small hand-played drums that can be worn around your neck with an old bit of rope. Whenever you use them to grant inspiration, any goblins in earshot also become inspired."
18,Chance the Rapier - This intelligent sword speaks with incredible creativity and rhyme. You can sing along with it to get the same benefits of a bardic instrument.
19,An enchanted accordion. Whoever plays it will slowly but steadily increases the tempo of whatever song they are playing.
20,A Stroh violin with the horn decorated with dwarven runes.
21,"Namic's Bladder - A set of Uilleann Pipes, black as ebony and with an incredibly clear sound. Said to have been created from the bones and bladder of a Black Dragon by Hersem Grelelian, who defeated the dragon on the way to her wedding and presented them to her husband."
22,"A member of the violin family made out of iridescent ivory. It changes sizes and transforms into the different forms of the family depending on the phase of the moon, starting as a violin on the full moon and growing into a double bass by the new moon."
23,A very worn looking banjo with the peg head made out of a carved piece of driftwood. Grants the performer the benefits the rustic hospitality feature with anybody that listens to a successful enough (DC 14) performance using the banjo.
24,A foldable grand piano that also doubles up as a boat.
25,"The mouthpiece of a flute. When held to the mouth, the rest of the flute is revealed. It's ghostly blue and produces sweet but strangely sad notes."
26,"A small flute carved from bone. When played, it sounds like a massive pipe organ, and even the liveliest of tunes has an unnerving, ominous tone."
27,"Shoes of Tap: Tap dancing shoes that when you click the heels, as bonus an action, allows one to tap dance on any surface. Movement speed decreases by 10, because you are dancing, but ignore difficult terrain, can dance on water, and can dance on walls when tapping magic is in use."
28,The Pipe Pipe: A smoking pipe that doubles as a playing pipe. If you smoke and play at the same time you can magically control the shape of the smoke.
29,Brass Plate: This large brass instrument wraps around you and acts as plate armor. When you roll a 1 on sneak the instrument starts playing mocking music as you move.
30,"A set of wooden spoons, ebony black with a glossy finish and silver inlay. After attunement, when the phrase 'Spoonblades, to my aid!' is called within a 15-foot area, the spoons transform into two spoon-shaped shortswords (Treat as a +1 weapon)."
31,"A set of four elderwood carved string instruments: The Shining Violin, The Viola Melodious, The Morning Cello, and The Bass Sonorous. The four instruments have a deep amethyst luster, and golden inscriptions in an elvish script. The inscriptions tell of a tryst between the God of Forest, and the Mountain Goddess. The quartet hasn’t been played together in 500 years."
32,"The Bass Bass. It's a large contrabass that looks like a fish. If you press a button on the neck of the bass, the fish head will tell a bad joke."
33,"The Brass Bass Bass. A Double Bass, also fish shaped. Playing the bass gives you the ability to breathe underwater when playing the bass, and advantage while doing so."
34,"The Brass Sass Bass Bass. An octobass carved for a giant, also piscine. When played with enough skill and force, able to deal structural damage to walls, doors, and other nearby objects. Will randomly interject with cutting remarks aimed at any nearby hostile creatures in their native tongue."
35,A jaw harp carved from a peacock's bone. Can cast feather fall once per day. The performer has a faint image of a peacock's tail appear behind them when playing.
36,"Pearl - An undersized lute that slowly (yet constantly) drips water while it is being played. The water is fresh and potable, but only drips while the music continues."
37,"The Golden Fiddle of Georg Ja. Legends say that he played this fiddle at the wedding of the ancient Queen Kershaw, banishing a demonic presence that had plagued her for a decade."
38,"The Silver Fiddle of Georg Ja. Legends say that Georg played this fiddle as Kershaw's kingdom burned, swearing revenge on the armies that had destroyed his lover's domain."
39,The Brass Fiddle of Georg Ja. Legends say that Georg never really liked this fiddle.
40,Fae Flute: an intricate flute whose music is understood as language by Fae creatures. While playing this flute you have Sylvan as a language.
41,Dread Drums of Doom: Deep booming drums that make creatures uneasy. Enemy creatures have disadvantage on save vs. frightened condition. Creatures who are immune to fear/frightened condition are unaffected.
42,"First Mate's Harmonica: An old harmonica engraved with a compass card and a variety of fish. When played on land it summons a fresh breeze smelling of salt and seaweed, putting everyone in a melancholic mood missing the sea. Playing the harmonica on a boat or ship of any size however grants the mercy of the sea. As long as the bard is playing the creatures of the deep show now interest in attacking the ship, an aft wind drives the ship forward and rogue waves lose most of their power before hitting the ship. When the music ends the effect slowly wears off and things return to normal over the next 30 minutes."
43,"An ancient set of pipes made from the hollowed out finger bones of a dead bard, with his soul still bound to them. When music is played from the instrument, listeners can faintly make out a gentle vocal accompaniment that perfectly fits whatever is being played."
44,"A wooden, roughly carved hunting horn that still has patches of bark remaining on its surface. The deep, haunting sound it makes is dark, foreboding, and above all else, wild, with its notes echoing far longer than they should. Once per week, the player of the pipes may use their action to mark a creature. At the start of the player's next turn, a pack of 2d4 spectral wolves coalesce into being near them and begin to hound the marked creature. The wolves pursue and attack the marked creature relentlessly, being completely immune to mental manipulation of any kind, and otherwise have the same stats as regular wolves. If a spectral wolf dies, it dissipates into the air for 24 hours, after which it reassembles itself within 100 feet of the target and continues its hunt. This effect persists until the marked creature dies or a week has passed, at which point the wolves give a final howl before evaporating and returning to the hunting horn, eagerly awaiting their next prey."
45,"An intelligent banjo of common, almost aggressively average craft. Insecure about its own worth and fantasizing of respect and honor, it refuses to sound like a banjo and instead sounds like a grand piano through sheer force of will."
46,A magical harp that causes whatever false legend sung while playing it to become true.
47,A set of panpipes made from a tree struck by lightning. Playing the pipes allows the piper to subtly and slowly alter the weather to either induce or reduce thunderstorms.
48,"The Dijj- a long, hollowed out greatclub, the Dijj makes a deep and oddly pleasant sound if blown into. If used as a greatclub, the strikes make powerful echoes, adding an extra 1d6 thunder damage to each hit."
49,"The Paltry Psaltery- A diminutive dulcimer-like instrument, in the hands of a talented bard, this instrument can bring bad luck and meager gains for enemies. As an action once per rest, a bard can play the Paltry Psaltery and force all enemies he sees to make a Charisma save (DC 10+ the Bard's performance modifier) or be subjected to the effects of the Bane spell. The effect lasts for as long as the bard plays, plus 1d6 rounds."
50,"Old Man's Shawm- This otherwise nondescript brown shawm has three wrinkled old faces carved into the bell. If a command word is spoken and then the instrument is played, one of the faces will open its mouth, creating a strange overtone. Anyone hearing the resultant music for one full round must make a constitution saving throw or gain one level of exhaustion."
51,A small drum with a symbol etched on the skin. Closer inspection reveals that the symbol is in fact a tattoo denoting membership to a now-defunct bandit group. (Things did not end well!)
52,An ocarina made out of a large beetle exoskeleton. The sound is not dissimilar to a cricket's chirp.
53,A 2-meter long string instrument with a thin slate body and metal strings (4 of them). Easy to play and far more durable than it looks. It has no name and nobody knows where it is from.
54,"It looks like an axe but it's completely blunt, hollow and riddled with holes. When swung it makes whistling sounds of different pitch - depending on the speed and direction of the swing."
55,"A didgeridoo. Spiraling around it's length is an epic saga of a great war from history, but key details are false including the victors."
56,"A shamisen that has leaves growing out of the tuning pegs. If removed, they grow back very quickly."
57,"An aged fiddle made of bits and junk, the finish is patchy and the pegs might even be bits of hardened cork, but an upbeat tune played on this fiddle never fails to get people wiggling fingers and doing a jig. If the listeners resist, they make a Charisma saving throw and dance uncontrollably for 1 minute on a failed save."
58,"A white Japanese-style flute delicately inlaid with strange runes of blue-black metal. Close examination will reveal that the flute is carved from a human femur. It always sounds beautiful, but breathtakingly mournful."
59,"An old and damaged wooden flute, held together with bandages. Inexplicably, there is a small plant growing out of one of the finger holes. It produces surprisingly beautiful music considering its condition."
60,"Bamboongos: A set of bongos made outta bamboo, that when played, summons 1d4 musicians that will give advantage to any bard song or inspiration. For every musician above the first one that is summoned, the inspiration/song gains a +2 bonus, for a total of +6."
61,A lute with the body made out a giant tortoise shell. Grants +1 to AC when not being played and is strapped to the bard's back.
62,A french horn decorated with black bronze dwarven runes that can only play melodies in minor key.
63,A fiddle made out of pure white wood and engraved with elven runes that can only play melodies in the major key.
64,A harp with a body made out of an opaque golden glass that seem to glow as the instrument is played.
65,A bassoon with the bell joint carved into the shape of a dragon's head that shoots smoke rings when played.
66,A cornett with an axe blade attached to the lower half that allows it to be used as a handaxe.
67,"A shield with two metal sticks that can be taken out of the back. When hit, may either sound like a steel drum, a gong, or an odd snare drum, depending on which side of the stick the bard is hitting with, and where on the shield they strike."
68,"The Whistles of The Deep - A set of stone chimes, expertly crafted by dwarven musicians in absolute darkness. The expert player can, while maintaining a proper rhythm, cast stone shape once per long rest."
69,"A shoulder brace that can be inflated. When a pipe is inserted into the end, it can act as a small, high-pitched bagpipe."
70,A smaller lute that plays pluckier tones called a lute-kelele.
71,A banjo called the 'Banjo of Truth' that once per day allows the performer to play a bad country song to cast one charge of Zone of Truth.
72,A bedazzled flute called a Jewel that blows out different scented vapor.
73,"Boots of the Dawn Chorus. A collection of bellows, whistles and trumpets adorn the soles of these shoes. Each dance the bard performs sounds like an ethereal birdsong. However, when the bard is fleeing from battle, it sounds a lot like a gaggle of honking geese."
74,A magically enchanted Glass Harmonica; when picked up it will float in front of the musician and start to spin as fast or slowly as the musician asks it to.
75,"A shamisen that is always cold to the touch. When played, the leaves fall off every tree within a 100' radius."
76,"The squire's hurdy-gurdy: the soul of the squire who last owned this instrument is bound to it. When it's played, a ghostly voice sings praise of the nearest warrior deemed worthy (with varying degrees of accuracy)."
77,"A lyre that sounds inexplicably familiar to everyone that hears it. No matter what song is played, it always makes the listener feel nostalgic."
78,"The Thunderhorn: A horn with a polished white-gold exterior. No matter how hard you blow into this horn, it is always comically loud."
79,A whistle that only people you choose can hear.
80,"A tiny brass bell wrapped in silk cloth. When the cloth is removed, the slightest disturbance unleashes a deafening ring."
81,"A 15ft Alphorn that when blown summons icy winds and frost. Oddly enough, it also causes a chance of summoning a St. Bernard with a small keg of brandy around its neck. (Roll a d20, if natural 20, dog is summoned.)"
82,A mountain dulcimer made of black locust wood. The sound-holes are intricately carved in the shape of stars. It re-tunes itself on clear nights.
83,"A lyre that suspiciously resembles the description of one belonging to a certain sun god. It seems to glow with radiance when played. Creatures associated with the moon visibly cringe when they see it, as if they do not like the thought of it's existence."
84,"A hurdy-gurdy made from darkwood, with enchanted strings that produce illusions while being played. The illusions are clearly illusions, and won't trick anybody, but are entertaining nonetheless. The form of the illusions range from a tiny ship sailing across a wall, to sapling growing out of the floor. The illusions are always transparent to an extent, and appear almost holographic."
85,"The Phoenix Egg - A beautifully constructed Red xun, said to be made from the egg of a Phoenix. It is said that, if it is played correctly, it will restore those who die around it to life (mimicking the effect of the revivify spell)."
86,"An Upright piano that is actually a highly mobile construct built with adjustable legs to be able to move in different terrain. If the piano is played badly or a less than favorable song is played then the constructs personality will take over and it will slam the lid shut, possibly on the musician’s fingers."
87,"A string instrument created by and for Elven musicians. The strings are made of specialized bowstring. When they are plucked in the right way they can shoot an ethereal arrow, which deals sonic damage and leaves a ringing in the targets ears."
88,"The Dragpipes: A set of bagpipes where the bag itself resembles a dragon’s skull. The horns are exaggerated to form the reeds while the player blows through the mouthpiece connected to the back of the neck. The sound of the Dragpipes mimics the roars of different dragons so the player can convince or cause frightening presence to people making them think there is one, or many dragons."
89,"The Barbarian's Cello: A cello carved from ironwood by dwarves. Its music, when played correctly, instills resolution, confidence, and defense in others."
90,"Conch Shell of the Officer: Legend says that this trumpet-like instrument was used by the Captain of the Guards in one of the ancient merfolk kingdoms. Used to rally troops to protect its nation. Sometimes it will drip out water, even when it is completely dry. It is inscribed with the words 'take me up'."
91,"Fairy Bell: A tiny bell (not fairy-tiny, but regular human tiny) formed from silver and bronze. It has three icons on it. The longer it is rung in rhythm, the more cumulative the effect."
92,"Harp of Hades: Necromantic magic flows off this instrument. Though it looks like any angelic harp, its music has been known to drive people to depression, sorrow, and madness. Any necromantic magic in the area increases in potency. Those unfortunate to hear its song are likely to see visions of horrifying events that they never knew about, such as the murder of a loved one that was disguised as a natural death or a repressed memory."
93,"Marimba of the Wind: Under each tone bar is a secret compartment, perfect for a rogue to hide things. It also seems to bring impossible good luck to the player, though this cannot be proven."
94,"The Triangle: If arcane words are invoked (which can be seen inscribed on the triangle if exposed to temperatures either hot or cold strong enough to kill a man), the center of the triangle becomes an invisible dimensional portal, like a bag of holding."
95,"Organ of the Dreaming Land: When played, the nearest sleeping person will begin dreaming of the circumstances around the player. It cannot be played by anyone not of noble birth."
96,"Drum, That Which Calls Thunder: A drum of unknown origin. It appears to be made from traditional methods, with clay and perhaps crocodile skin. But there is something more ancient about this drum that you can't quite put your finger on. It turns any attack back toward the source (like turning back arrows to the people who shot them)."
97,"Perfect Stillness - This strange instrument appears to make no sound when played; however, all those listening become hyper-aware of all of the sounds around them."
98,"The Master's Desk - An exquisitely smooth guqin, carved of cherry wood and perfectly tuned every time it is uncovered. Believed to have belonged to Guit Prox, the ancient Minotaur sage of lore."
99,"The Bann's Fiddle - A light green Fiddle with a bow like a sapling, it is impossible to play the Bann's Fiddle sadly. Every song has an upbeat, cheery tone. When sad songs are sung on the fiddle, there is a strange magic that turns them happy by the end, resulting in a strange retelling of many tragic sagas."
100,"Red Chuk - A small red box with a wooden handle, the Red Chuk creates an impressive percussive sound when struck. Anyone playing has advantage on any persuasion or performance check to act in accordance with courtly formalities for the next hour."

d100,Entry

1,To Serve Man: An ogre cookbook on the delicate art of cooking humans.
2,"It's Familiar, But Not Too Familiar: A guide on how to take care of you're newly acquired companion."
3,Who Moved My Cheese?: Step by step guide to Mage Hand for beginners.
4,We've All Made Mistakes: Intro to Necromancy raising your dead wife.
5,Of Fleet and Fancy: a Novel that tells the tales of Odd Heroes.
6,"Are you being invaded?: A guide book on how to protect one's self from Ogres, Goblins, Kobolds, and woodland critters."
7,Ogre's Guide to tying Knots: A Simplistic Guide on how to Tie Various Knots.
8,The Fall of Cavour: A Fictional Piece about the caveman wars.
9,Temina's Guide to Kobolds Volume 1 - 6: An introductory Field Guide to all the ins and out on Kobolds. (1d6 to see which volume it is)
10,What Men know about Women: A Hard cover Book with One Hundred Empty Pages.
11,"Friar Albert's Guide to Surviving Traps: Chalk, rope, torches and a sturdy pole are your best friends. And a brain."
12,"Friar Albert's Guide to Forest Trails: Lichen and moss, you fool. Learn the difference."
13,Friar Albert's Guide to Brewing: You should probably not be adventuring while doing this.
14,Friar Albert's Guide to the History of [setting]: Braggins be quiet and pay attention!
15,Friar Albert's Guide to Herbs and Plants: If you can't remember this then chew on some hemlock for your nerves.
16,Friar Albert's Guide to Publishing Law: No I can't be held responsible if you only read the byline and then die.
17,Friar Albert's Guide to Fleeing the Academy and Hiding in a Church Cellar: A Memoir.
18,Beholder in the eye of Beauty: Classic fashion tips for the beholder in your family!
19,"Maps, Maps, Maps: Tons of maps for your reading pleasure."
20,The Lusty Argonian Maid: A classic Tamriel tale of a lusty lizardfolk maid.
21,Dr. Harding's Guide to Magic Science: Dr. Harding's book describes how magic is a hoax to supress scientific explanations of the supernatural.
22,Dungeon Masters and how to find them: mysterious book describing the seldom-seen beasts.
23,A Monster's Guide to Secret Lairs: Everything a monster needs to know about making the perfect home.
24,"The Faerun Survival Guide [1st edition]: Written (and illustrated by) St. Moyra of Bron Abbey as the complete reference for would-be adventurers or visiting celestials. Written by a recluse and based on what had been told to the author by word of mouth, it contains many “facts” that should probably not be followed."
25,Behind The Wall: A book made out human skin. This book is constantly wet and smells like a fresh corpse. This book talks about a seal in a cave underwater. Unsure of why but after reading this you get the feeling that you want to break the seal.
26,Stranger in my dreams: This book talks about the author recalling a depraved creature who over time got closer and closer to her in her dreams. The book seems to be a diary and was never finished. When you read the last finished page in this book you take 1d8 points of psychic damage.
27,Curiosity Kills the Cat: When you open this thick maroon colored book you quickly realize there is only one page inside. The text drips onto the floor as soon as you begin to read it. You cannot understand any of the text but you immediately realize the text tells of your demise.
28,Influence of the Ocean: This book can only be read when near the ocean or on a rainy day. Inside the book talks about a man who is waiting for you in the ocean. He mentions all of the rewards he is keeping for you. If you roll and succeed an insight check DC16 you'll find out that this is man is lying to you. If he is real or not you don't know.
29,Diary of a Thief: This book is a pocket sized leather diary. Every time a player finishes a page of this book they lose a gold coin Unsure of where it went.
30,Uncle Chuv's Peanut Butter Problem: Upon reading this the room will smell more and more like peanut butter. When the book is finished it will mold into a jar of endless peanut butter. It is impossible to get rid of this book normally. The only way to get rid of this book is to burn the jar in fire. If you attempt to eat a spoonful of this peanut butter you take 1d4 points of psychic damage.
31,Changing Secrets: This sparkling book smells like incense. Inside the book talks about one of your secrets (ask player). This book when read causes every person in the room to know one secret of yours.
32,Patterns of Behavior: an anthology of mood effecting quilt work - a small hardcover picture book of patterns that slightly effect one's mood.
33,"Timeless Words of Wisdom for the Courtroom, Phrases That Persuade From the Backwoods to the Big City: This is a full compendium of philosophical and legal summaries that can arm a budding lawyer with a mental skill set to be cunning and out think their opponent."
34,"Fifty Shades of Drow: A bestseller among women, as it details the finer points of the Matriarchal society. With tips on how to properly train and punish your man-servants while maintaining your femininity, this book would be banned if only men would actually read it."
35,Where is that dragon egg? A handy tip book for managing clutter in the workshop.
36,"Fireside Singalongs: A simple songbook for bored travelers, with optional sheet music for instrumental accompaniment."
37,"Income Management and Financial Assessment: A book containing several long chapters detailing ways to horde, hide, and invest gold. Hidden within are several nude illustrations of females of the common races."
38,The life and times of Volo: Autobiographical book featuring the exaggerated and often blatantly false adventures of the well traveled Volo.
39,What To Do When You Find Children: A guidebook to dealing with found children and other such inconveniences in various dangerous situations.
40,"Learn To Read: An incredibly dense book that details the process of learning the art of reading Common, almost impossible to understand, even for those fluent in Common."
41,Gobbo and Me: - A children's book about the dangers of befriending Goblins.
42,"An Almanack of Practical Mortis: An exhaustive collection of tables detailing how corpses decompose under various circumstances, along with an appendix that explains step-by-step how to remove maggots, close large wounds, and reset broken bones. If the players obtain it second-hand, bits of paper with names such as ""Aunty Milla"" and ""Betrand (4c3r)"" are attached by weak adhesive to some of the pages. A successful Perception check reveals that there are slight remnants of adhesive left above each note, as if someone kept moving the note down the page over time."
43,A Study on Cloud Castles: This book presents numerous theories on how the giant's fabled cloud castles might work.
44,How to Talk to Gnolls Without Getting Torn to Shreds: This book is based off of the notes of an ambitious goblin who was evidently torn to shreds.
45,The Beasts of Menita Valley: A book detailing the magical fauna of a valley you have never heard of.
46,"All Horns & Tails? A Beginner's Guide on Everything Tieflings: Halifar the Bard walks you through the wide and wild world of Tieflings, their heritage, and how to even make friends with our infernal neighbors."
47,"1001 Edible & Magical Plants of Chult: Visiting Chult but not sure what to eat and what to avoid? This information packed book is the definitive guide on navigating the delicious, dangerous gardens of Chult."
48,"A Raven Flew Overhead: The Raven Queen, lady of mystery and intrigue. Misunderstood. Antihero? Quillo Quillorobor delves into the history of this storied individual, parsing fact from fiction. With exclusive interviews with folks who knew her best, all the way from the Shadowfell itself, this book is a must read."
49,Fun With Tears: A book detailing the magical and alchemical properties of tears.
50,The Social Practices of Various Avian Humanoids: This book tells you all you need to know about interacting with bird people.
51,Fey'runds Tales: a children's book of fables.
52,"Eye: A tale of the journey of the company of the eye. Their rise, their fall, their legacy."
53,Naught but the Wind's Caress: A collection of torrid love stories between a High Elf and their Human lover.
54,Illuminarium Battalia: A manual of fighting with magic and steel.
55,"Where Is The Pancreas, and How To Prepare It: The cannibal's guide to fine dining."
56,Rock Hard: The definitive guide to Dwarven diplomacy.
57,Red Goes Faster: The definitive biography of Zomo the mad goblin who broke out of the celestial sphere and returned to tell about it.
58,"The Skull - A heavy book filled with a long stream-of-consciousness narrative describing a single humanoid skull in careful detail. The narrator seems completely focused on the skull, never describing its origins, its surroundings, or themselves."
59,"Kobold Jokes: A joke book, written in Draconic. The jokes are terrible, even by Kobold standards."
60,"A Treatise On The Non-Existence Of This Treatise: A small pamphlet that attempts to convince the reader that the pamphlet does not exist, and that it is in fact a figment of the reader's imagination. Despite being written in a very academic and generally formal tone, the arguments within are mostly circular or otherwise fallacious."
61,"Dream Journal: A carefully illustrated dream journal by a famous wizard of old, containing a large amount of arcane truths. The pages have been scrawled with black ink, rendering it illegible."
62,"Necromancy for Imbeciles: An introductory guide to the basics of necromancy. Has been hollowed out to allow for storage, though it appears normal. Contains a skeleton of a large rodent."
63,"The Ravings of Garvus [3rd Edition]: The assorted notes and thoughts of an ancient and powerful wizard from an era long past. His mind was obliterated upon making contact with unknown entities, but records of his journey into madness remain."
64,Hilarious Knock-Knock Jokes to Say Out Loud: A thin and suprisingly old-looking book containing a few genuinely good knock-knock jokes. At least one punchline is actually the true name of a powerful demon.
65,The Next Hunt - Volume I: Wyverns: The first in a series of installments detailing an abundance of methods for finding and hunting various monsters. Each volume covers a different creature.
66,"Let Me Out Of Here: Once a simple children's picture book, it is now the seal for multiple malevolent poltergeists that break free of the book's pages when it is opened. They are not particularly grateful to those who released them."
67,"""Help! I'm a dwarf turned into a book"""
68,Short But Stout: A list of recipes and information on Dwarven ale.
69,The Tale Of Crimshaw The Sweet: A legendary tale of an infamous Tiefling baker who killed dozens of orcs by baking them poisonous cookies.
70,"Orc Smith Compendium: An extensive informative book about Orcish weaponry, armor, and miscellaneous metal items."
71,Animated Apocrypha: A Book of Movement and Morals: An enchanted book of tales with illustrations that move on their own in a set repeating pattern. The tales tend to connect to the nearest civilization and depict stories of good morals.
72,101 Morsels And Monsters: A cook book detailing various recipes based around safely using the meat of creatures adventurers might slay in battle.
73,"Coppers For Your Thoughts: A small book of random musings, quotes, and anecdotes. None are attributed to any authors."
74,"An Anatomical Study of Magical Creatures: A set of 6 volumes on the interior structure of magical, extra-planar beings."
75,On the History of the First Era: A historical documentation of the day-to-day life in the antiquated Prime Material.
76,Tome Prime: A thick book of hundreds of pages in a language unintelligible to all but the author; seems to be a novel of some sort.
77,Verdant Home: A slim book where the words are mangled by travel into the Far Realm. Seems to tell the story of a family in an impossible home.
78,"A Herbalist's Guide to Surviving: This diary details the accounts a famous halfling smuggler, who was best known for smuggling his home made rum into kingdoms throughout the world during the great alcohol depression. With proper study the reader can reproduce the famous Sweetfoot Rum recipe from the different mentions, hints and references scattered across the pages of this book."
79,"The Fall of the Empire: On the surface, this appears to merely be a recounting of the opulent Haloan Empire's fall from power centuries ago. Some claim, however, that careful analysis reveals it as a scathing commentary on the notoriously corrupt court of King Judicus, written in code to keep the author from harm."
80,"Arcane Secrets: A generous manuscript contains description of inner workings of various contraptions and automatons and instruction manual to programming automatons, allowing any intermediate transmuter to create their very own contraptions!"
81,"From Ghouls to Ghosts: The book is chaotic and hard to understand, written in an unknown dialect which makes it very slow to read. Contained within are the studies of a powerful necromancer on how interplanar travel might be used to achieve functional immortality."
82,"Our Friend the Cactus: Written by a dwarf wizard by the name of Daven Wraithmail, this treatise explains the growth and upkeep of a Gulthias Tree as well as several manners to corrupt seeds of other trees in order to create a suitable vessel. An entire chapter is dedicated to the domestication of the resulting blights which sprout from said tree and their training to better protect your new sapling."
83,"To Cheat A Devil: The autobiography of a man who tricked dozens of minor devils, and even a few archdevils into doing his nefarious bidding. It seems like this man should be much more well known if the events described in this book actually took place."
84,"There, they're, their, and back again: A halfling's guide to grammar."
85,"Don't You Worry About The Bugs!: Every thing you need to know about bugs. Rise, feed, kill and cook your best friend!"
86,"The True Rulers of Our Countries: A controversial document in and of its own right, this book talks about the creation of the Prime Material and Inner planes. A thin volume which only contains 4 pieces of paper, however these papers are magically enchanted to pass through the thousands of pages of content which this book holds. The author of the document seems almost too knowing on the subject, almost as if he were there..."
87,"Stories from the Orkholds: A collection of poems written by an orcish adventurer and skald. The majority of the book is an epic saga, recounting the various deeds of the adventuring party the poet was a part of, with later short poems about specific aspects of adventurers' lifestyle. The later poems touch on a wide array of topics, such as the joys of a shared victory, longing for hearth and home, and the simple pleasure of splitting a foe in half lengthwise."
88,"The Night's Embrace: A book about the primordial titans, mostly legend and myth, collected by an eccentric young wizard who traveled the planes looking for information about them. This book is highly frustrating to scholars because the last entry is the beginning of a summary of an actual historical document, which has never been found. The book is unfinished and the wizard has not been seen for hundreds of years."
89,"The Story of Graye: The story of a slave forced to be a pit-fighter who turned to meditation as an escape from his violent life. This book is not well written, and is probably an earlier work of a novice author that never reached wide spread fame."
90,"The Inner Workings of a Gulthias Tree: A dense acedemic treaty on the biology of cacti. If one has the patience it is very interesting in its own way. The book also details a large number of edible cacti, as well as those that can be used as water sources in the harsh deserts."
91,"1011 Prayers for the Dead: A large, black covered book describing the funerary rituals of almost every culture in the known world."
92,"On ""The Aleum"": This book is a modern copy very ancient commentary on an epic poem named The Aleum, which was already very ancient when On ""The Aleum"" was written. No original copy of The Aleum has been located, therefore On ""The Aleum"" has fascinated historians."
93,Raising the Steaks: A comprehensive guide on rearing cattle in environments that are likely to include monsters. Includes detailed and somewhat bizarre methods to scare away potential predators.
94,FINISH THEM: A bright red book that talks about the coolest ways to end a brutal fight. (PC who reads this can roll intimidation once after reading it for killing someone)
95,Do it Yourself - Comic Book: A yellow book that's empty at first. Over the course of a month though the book will fill itself with all the adventures you go on. The cooler the adventures and dialogue the more the book is the worth if you sell it!
96,A Story About The Letter X: This pretty orange book was written by Marc Dahspaht. Honestly not sure who that could be the book talks about the best ways of hiding gold and making a map to lead to it.
97,The Aarcana-sutra: A one stop guide to magic and its uses within the bedroom.
98,"Cooking with pig meat: A book that smells like bacon. You try to read it, but the pages inside the cover are wrapped in bacon. If you try to unwrap it, it's bacon all the way down, until you get to a small slip of paper that says ""oink""."
99,"Golden Fleece: Empty book, has 50 gold coins in it. Has a page describing gold and how tasty it is. Upon further inspection, the gold coins are chocolate."
100,"Library Book of Libraries: A photo book showing a series of decrepit bookshelves, along with locations."

d100,Entry

1,"The Figulari, they disguise their actions in public as the Potter's Guild. In truth they construct enchanted clay traps that capture the souls of their political opponents. Their members are referred to as ""Clayed Men""."
2,"Magitologists; a large well known cult in certain parts of the world. Started by psychic writer L Rob Hupyard, they are a vastly rich organization rich enough not to be hunted down by the authorities in the cities they reside in. They have many famous people among their ranks. Rumors are that they horribly torture and brainwash those who try to leave."
3,"The Guild of Undertakers and Gravediggers has a secret: the town was built on the site where an evil, nameless god was slain millennia ago and anyone buried there will arise as undead in three days. They have a ritual they perform out of sight of the deceased's loved ones that prevents this, but a necromancer has infiltrated their ranks and has figured out how to reverse it. Unless stopped, the whole area will be awash in undead."
4,"Lizard people who secretly control large sections of the government. They are actually lizardfolk, with numerous members dedicated to the creation of hats of disguise to further infiltrate."
5,"Magic users pretending to be an anti-magic organization for two reasons: the ability to discreetly cape and stop real anti-magic supporters, and so that they can use terrible arguments in politics to reduce resistance to magic-positive rulers and legislation."
6,"A cult that worships inactive spheres, with prophecies saying that someday the spheres will activate, and Grant them limitless power (spheres are inactive Mythallar, waiting for DAM plot point)"
7,"Pixies intent on researching and recovering permanency spells, intent on permanently shrinking the other races to a more proper size (with a smaller subsection planning to grow, themselves, and subjugate both other pixies and newly-Tiny races)"
8,"Ancient cult of half-dragons, dragon born, and kobolds, worshipping an ancient, True-Polymorphed wizard, who will refuse to believe their dragon isn't real."
9,"Necromancers whose only goal is to live in peace, using undead to do manual labor and creating a hidden City where all live rich, happy lives. A necromancer controlling some farming zombies dies of old age, leaving some zombies free from control, and those zombies attack a nearby, surprised village. Adventurers are brought in, offered lots of gold to defeat ""the Neverland behind all of this""."
10,"A hidden underground elf City, not drow, just wood elves who would prefer to be left alone. They mostly hunt but they also sell beautiful bone and wood carvings in nearby towns. Their City was once a valley, but, using their druid and ranger members, they had trees grow over the top. Now noon is as twilight, and twilight is as night."
11,"A society of gnomes dedicated to gnome rights. They believe (correctly or incorrectly) gnome rights are being trampled on and intend to right this wrong from the inside. Using trench coats and disguise kits, sets of three gnomes disguise themselves as humans and try to gain political power to force all businesses and public places to lower counters, tables, chairs, and shelves to a height appropriate for ""all sentient and decent folk""."
12,"A secret cabal of merchants that rig the price of a particular raw material in the surrounding towns. When competition arises, they have bandits attack the rival caravans while faking attacks on their own. If the PCs get too close to the truth they'll be hired as caravan guards during their investigation, only to be attacked by bandits and all the members of the caravan during an ambush."
13,"A cult of humans that believe elves are favored by the gods due to their grace and longevity. To fool the gods, their priests wear masks and gloves made from the skin of elves and pray to Elven gods for long life. They will kidnap and starve elves and half elves so their skin become looser and easier to remove after they're killed."
14,"A small cult of commoners who believe that magic isn’t real, and is a series of mechanical tricks performed by incredibly well disguised constructs."
15,"A group of pale, starved elves who travel the globe kidnapping humanoids and feeding them to a dark beast, in an attempt to increase it’s power enough to level cities."
16,"Every person in town talks in a whisper, because they believe they are living in the ear of their god, and they don't wanna wake him."
17,"The UnderTown, a town ruled by dwarves that connects to other towns, they can always be found beneath the city, ready to accept another dwarf into their ranks to help him/her out. Enjoys causing earthquake-like collapses of relatively important structures in small towns and has a formidable army to destroy nations underfoot (literally under)."
18,"The Silver Adders - A group of rebellious teenagers from noble families that have taught themselves the art of poison and assassination. They've honed their skills with thrill kills of random merchants and peasants, leaving behind a silver broach as a calling card. They now seek more challenging prey, specifically adventurers like the PCs."
19,"A town full of people living on the top of a cliff who throw offerings off the cliff to their god, mostly harming the people passing down under the cliff."
20,The Clean Slate - Those who study history are doomed to repeat the same mistakes and stagnate. The Clean Slate does its best to destroy the chains of precedence and history so people can try new things. The more novel ideas realized the better chance of founding a perfect society. Once that is done all other history would be useless anyway.
21,The True Royals - They have a child who is supposedly the heir to a kingdom long since destroyed. They need to find other people first willing to follow them and then willing to reform the kingdom. The problem is somebody in the past did their best to erase all mention of the kingdom so nobody remembers or cares. The True Royals sponsor missions to rediscover this ancient civilization. If it was a good or evil place remains a mystery.
22,The Needle Conglomerate - The world is flat and they know it. There is a world of riches and gems on the underside of this one. They work to dig deep at the thinnest parts of the world to get through to this land. Their luck isn't to good cause they keep hitting ancient dungeons or lakes of fire that burst out onto the surface.
23,"The Friends in the Dark: a shadowy secret network of informers and rumor-mongers whose purposes and goals are unknown, even to many members. Actually, the secret police/intelligence agency of a collapsed and forgotten kingdom that still goes through the motions even though they have nothing left to protect/answer to."
24,"The Order of the Spellbreakers: An order of paladins who believe that only the gods may use magic (or grant it to their followers), and all other magic is heresy. They seek to eradicate magic from the world, starting with villainous characters such as liches and making their way toward the more innocent local enchanter or wandering Druid."
25,"The Hidden Fangs - A group of vampires who disguise themselves as vampire hunters, allowing them to visit towns which have vampire problems and feast on the citizens without being detected easily."
26,"The Helping Hand - this group of helpful clerics and healers secretly believe that doomsday is right around the corner and is helping it along, for their perceived prize in the afterlife"
27,"The Leathercrafter's Union - to normal society a normal gathering of Leatherworkers, like any other trade guild, but secretly they plan and execute attacks on smiths - particularly armorsmiths, that they feel are making them obsolete."
28,"The Divine Crown - this cult believes that the mightiest kings and Lords aren't just blessed by the gods, but instead that they are the reincarnation of the gods. How the royalty they worship reacts to worship varies among ruler to ruler, but most royalty do begin to be annoyed when the cult makes unauthorized assassinations on their enemies - which they almost always do."
29,"The Undergrounders: These humans became fascinated by the dwarves and built their own small society emulating dwarven tradition's and customs. The dwarves who meet this society can't seem to agree whether or not this is a mockery or humans finally coming to their senses. There are similar societies fascinated by gnomes, halflings and elves, with elves being the most offended at this odd display. There also were a small society dedicated to emulating orcs, but these societies are usually killed when they meet actual orc tribes."
30,The shadows. A group headed by an unknown man that contacts mercenaries and potential members through mysterious envelopes that appear out of seemingly nowhere. They have an intricate network of common folk that allows them to stay up to date with affairs all over the city.
31,"The Golden Cradle - A group of hereditary nobles that were secretly adopted into their families when their parents were unable to conceive children. They secretly fund numerous orphanages and sponsor orphans as apprentices to various guilds. Given that all their wealth and power is built upon their falsified bloodlines, though, they will stop at nothing to preserve their secrets. They may feel terrible about their actions, but they justify it as the only way to protect their good works."
32,The Risen: A group of people who have been resurrected and believe themselves to be chosen amongst the masses. They seek to further their agenda of purifying non-believers.
33,"The Moundeliers:. A group of halflings, gnome, druid and firbolg who seek to prevent the expansion of villages into the woodland area."
34,Gold Bloods:. They are a group of people who have seen the destruction of the world foretold by celestials. They believe Orcs and worshippers of grumsh are the bringers of the end time and seek to eradicate them.
35,The Grave Barons: Tiefling nobles who became Tiefling once partaking in a ritual for Asmodius for greater power. They have spread throughout the land slowly corrupting nobles.
36,The Umbraconti: An (figuratively and sometimes literally) underground school of wizards and artificers who research taboo magic. Their actions are normally not overtly malicious but it has been said that Umbraconti wizards have killed entire cities in pursuit of arcane knowledge.
37,"The High-hats: A guild of minstrels and fools whose entire purpose is to infiltrate the celebrations and courts of royalty and, using their enchanted bardic music and foolery, influence the royals for the betterment of the guild."
38,"Reachers: A society of Gnomes who worship a human con-man who claims to be a gnome that found the cure for shortness. He gives them ""magic growth tonics"" (water) in exchange for valuables they steal from passing travelers."
39,"The Spore: A group of Druids who have found that a dangerously addictive mushroom can only be grown on the dead bodies of Firbolgs. As such, the group has taken to hunting down Firbolgs and killing them to further their addictions."
40,"The Brine: A society of fisherman and dock workers who smuggle the dead from Tartarus by means of the River Styx without arousing suspicion from Kharon, the Ferryman of Hades."
41,"A group of priests, nuns, monks, paladins, etc., who run a society dedicated to the welfare of orphans and foundlings. They run orphanages but specialize in placing babies and very young (preverbal) children with families who cannot conceive. They are militant in their charity, but no matter how hard the PCs look, there is absolutely nothing creepy about them. A statistically improbable number of the children gain wild magic sorcerous powers once they hit puberty, though this is kept mostly secret."
42,"Loyal Order of the Water Buffalo: The Grand Exalted Imperial PooBah welcomes you to join this brotherhood focused on the manlier aspects of life: hunting, fishing, drinking, BBQs, more drinking, etc. Be recommended by a member and bring your first dues installment to your local chapter; Lodge 26."
43,"The Fellowship of Whispers, a religious chapter of paladins, clerics and assassins dedicated to rooting out politicians, noblemen & all other influential members of society that have been corrupted by demonic influence. Their name comes from the quietly whispered prayer associated with their more unsavory activities. Or perhaps from the fact that their existence is only known through whispers in dark places. Or..."
44,"The Bloody Brothers & The Sanguine Sisterhood, twin societies founded by two ancient vampires who tired of the hunt and instead compete to control civilization(s)- keeping score with one another. Their leadership is split on gender lines, but thralls exists in all forms. Many wars and disasters have been caused by one trying to torpedo the other."
45,"The Order of the Mask, a group of revolutionaries and enlightened thinkers who believe that a republic is the only way forward for society. They idolize a Masked Jester, whose name is lost in history, who assassinated the last of the great kings of the kingdom and caused a century of strife. The Jester would likely be bemused if he was brought back, he killed the king because it was fun."
46,"The Preservers, a society that collects knowledge on all things and store it in their hidden library. Their leadership are members of a long forgotten and ill-fated civilization, related to the Lizardfolk and Yuan-ti. Some claim the library exists on it's own plane and is accessible only through the realm of dreams through years of training in traversing the planes or by following a guide that knows the way."
47,"The Wilhallow Society for Scientific Endeavor: a group of wizards, alchemists, necromancers and scientists performing countless experiments on the unknowing denizens of the small town of Wilhallow over the course of the last 60 years. By now, the majority of Wilhallow's residents are barely human, having been replaced bit-by-bit with zombified flesh, goblin and orc limbs, or advanced mechanical prosthetics. Fortunately, they've all been magically disguised to not notice this, and the fact that none of them seem to age anymore hasn't particularly bothered the citizens of Wilhallow."
48,"The Devil's Circle: A high-stakes gambling ring overseen by a minor Baron of Hell, Zycobulz. The Circle's patrons include kings and wizards, Fay lords and Drow matriarchs. The bets are on the outcome of wars, the survival of empires, and can take decades to play out. The rewards are souls, titles, favors and magic trinkets, and Zycobulz ensures that the house always walks away a bit richer."
49,"The Redstreet Genuine Gentlemen's Club: a dizzyingly complex and far-reaching information network set up by a long-deceased master detective, the Redstreet Club can get dirt on anyone and anything, and has years-long casefiles on interesting individuals locked away in the Club's record books. The Club's members are detectives, city guardsmen, street urchins and thieves, each one pulling from a pool of resources to fund their own investigations and to hand out information to interested buyers."
50,"Six Sky Triad: a Thri-Kreen society hidden in a small desert town. Triad activities are mostly benign, with the Thri-Kreen secretly discussing town matters and fulfilling ancient cultural rites that have been suppressed by the local government. Every Thri-Kreen citizen of the town is either a Triad member or at least knows of it, and they keep their society hidden through telepathic communication, their nighttime meetings occurring in total silence. Occasionally the Triad will journey out into the desert for a night, singing desert songs and praising the Sand Father, but these journeys are rare, and getting rarer as time goes by."
51,"The Monks of the Eclectic Feline: An order of monks who’s origin is shrouded in mystery, but who operate based on the whims and wishes of an “Immortal Tabaxi Warrior” which, if investigated, turns out to be a house-cat familiar with a catnip addiction. Where’s the house-cat’s mage?"
52,"The Delumminati: a group of blind Drow that believe the entire world should be cursed with the darkness they suffer themselves. They extinguish any source of light they find, kill magic users that produce light effects, and eventually hope to kill the sun."
53,Death liberators; This underground group of Necromancers work to remove the stigma of Necromancy and get it legalized.
54,"The Faithless; a group that don't recognize the divinity of the gods, and seek to end organized religion. They ""achieve"" this by sabotaging places of worship, usually disguised to look like an attack by another religion. When confronted they will usually respond with a variation of: ""If the gods are so powerful, why didn't they prevent it?"""
55,Mary Mage's Menagerie: This traveling band hides their criminal activity by also performing as a travelling circus. Unlike many other circuses Mary's main attractions are extraordinary magic displays and training of magical animals
56,"Sorcery: The Collective; this widespread hobby is particularly popular amongst young men, but they play in secret clubs due to watchdog groups that claim that the players are tempted by the infernal by participating."
57,"The Vanishing Act: A network of entertainers and performers that spans the globe. The Act is centered around the ""liberating"" of valuable goods and information, which are then traded around the network for a price. Becoming a member is difficult due to the organization granting membership by invitation only. In addition, one who wishes to join must not only prove themselves to be uniquely talented in their chosen art, but equally skillful in the retrieval of valuable goods, in whatever forms those goods come. Members are given a subtle yet distinctive tattoo and a musical excerpt to memorize, which allows them to identify other members. ""Studios"" can be found in various cities (typically hidden in very expensive clubs or brothels), and many Actors find themselves frequenting such locations. Those who wish to trade their valuables can sniff out the areas and seek admittance by presenting their tattoo and music, upon which they will be free to go about their business."
58,"The Gutter's Court: Once upon a time, all the highborn lords and ladies of the land agreed that they could not be bothered dealing with all the troubles presented by the everyday peasant. To remedy this issue, they created the Gutter's Court, a separate, less powerful court then their own, composed of remarkable peasants that have demonstrated an above average level of loyalty to their respective feudal leader. These peasants are recruited by their feudal lords to handle menial administrative duties as well as provide an additional layer of contact between the nobility and the commoners. The Court is also a tool used for a less innocent purpose. Due to the chosen peasants being the lowborn representatives of their lords, any issues that the lords have with one another are typically resolved through violent retaliation directed towards their proxy. Chosen peasants often make their own plots to seize power in the Gutter's Court, and exceptionally prominent ones may even be taken into their lords house."
59,"The White Eldritches: Lots are born to control, few are born free. Acting in the darkness, this mind flayers are born with the gift of the free will. Able to hear the Elder brain orders, but free to choose what to do, they want Illithid people to be free from the hive brain control. Except for their terroristic actions against the elder brain they're quite the good guys (Chaotic Good/Neutral)."
60,"The Baker's guild: a regular guild to a passerby, is in fact a mafia organization. Money laundering, exerting social pressure by under or overdeliver, smuggling in flour, etc.."
61,The Terrorizing Tinkers: A clandestine collection of Gnomes who are popularizing the use of machinery over magic to better life and solve problems through evil means.
62,"The Oldguard: A band of mercenaries that the government pays to keep the peace. Secretly they work towards a revolution, trying to bring back the ""old ways""."
63,"The cult of the UnBroken god: A group/cult that believes if a god can be killed/maimed/broken they are not worthy of worship. Because of this belief they are trying to destroy all the gods, to find out if there are any gods left worthy of worship."
64,DAD - Dwarves Against Drinking. A secret society of dwarves who think that the drunken culture of dwarves is holding them back and once dwarfs stop drinking they will be able to rule the world.
65,A guilds of artists. They do tattoos mostly. Their secret isn’t that evil. They always offer tattoo songbirds to the hands of any travelers for free. They believe that the songbirds let the people get into heaven. And knowing no one would take the offer that way they trick people into getting them saying that the tattoos are a promotional gimmick.
66,A society of rich merchants and hired psychopaths/assassins that all have a taste for death. They lure large groups to their false town with promises such as payment for getting rid of a menace or a safe place to sleep for whatever group may pass by only to hunt them for sport the next night.
67,"Mans Best Friend - On the outside, a charitable organization funded by the crown to provide service dogs for disabled citizens. In truth, the dogs are magically enchanted to serve as the eyes and ears of the government."
68,"The Brawlers are a group of fighters and monks who use cestus gloves (1d8 damage) as their weapons. This group is unknown by the townsfolk and are usually in the taverns and inns. The brawlers blend in with the townsfolk and aren't able to be noticed. They have no motives but to fight when provoked. If a fight starts in the inn between the PCs and just 1 brawler, all the Brawlers attack the instigator of the encounter."
69,"Mephistopheles: This secret society of Tiefling traders all use masks of disguise self to appear identical, and all operate under the name Mephistopheles. They work together to slowly begin to form a monopoly on the trade of magical items in order to drive up the prices."
70,"The Srepeek Ooz: A racially diverse order that seeks to preserve all forms of life by storing small populations of all races and species inside enchanted underground zoos. Inside one of these ""life vaults"" you can find many strange creatures both magical and mundane, some of them exist nowhere else."
71,The Loreguards: A small but powerful group of individuals who make sure no one rediscover the how to create magic items.
72,"Cult of the Creation Dragon: these members believe that the world is in fact a the first dragon curled up waiting to wake up, the cult aims to wake the dragon and re create the world as we know it."
73,"The Allseeing Eye: A huge network of wizards who use the detect thoughts, sending, and message spells to obtain information and give it to people for the right price. They sometimes secretly give unknowing people information about their rivals to get them to try and fight."
74,"A secret all-female cabal of makeup artists that specializes in making dead people look alive. Through their expansive network of powerful individuals they are able to ensure they find out about deaths before anyone else. They offer the most powerful a chance at reanimation if they agree to work under the cabal' s thumb and they keep them in line by threatening to reveal their secret. Remember that famous bard that you thought had died? Or that kind mayor who you thought was buried under rubble? Turns out it was a ""false alarm""."
75,"Dark Arts Anonymous: A collective of wizards who peered into the dark arts and wound up changed in some way. Despite many being banned from the ""good"" institutions of learning, many remain there, surreptitiously researching their hobby and corrupting their souls. They meet on Wednesday nights in a secret cave in the Feywild, and try to support each other in quitting this corrupting influence. To protect they're anonymity though, they will do anything."
76,"The Farmer's Society: A society that owns a giant farm, and control nearby cities with blackmail using food."
77,"The Medusa Cult: A cult of blind cultists who worship a Medusa. They can't see her, so they don't get any problems when living with her."
78,"You have heard much disturbing gossip about the Iron League of the Cup. Apparently the Unspoiled Presbyter of the Grail is seeking the lost ""Tome of Bivariate Energies"" to further the Cup's excavation of a graven burrow past the Wandering Waters. As he gathers information on the Tome, the Presbyter is also distributing ""tokens of redemption"" that can only be redeemed at the excavation site."
79,The Unalloyed: An organization of Dwarves that seeks to remove all non-Dwarves from Dwarven territory and cut off all trade and travel to and from other races' territories.
80,"The Necrocrats: A cult of powerful necromancers that seek out the worlds best and strongest of rulers to grant them immortality through lichdom, all in a quest to bring law to the world."
81,"Order of the Specter, a group of noble men across the kingdom who deal in dark magic to receive visions of future events that could come to pass. The Order uses this knowledge to increase there own individual power and wealth. The magic they use requires that the users sacrifice one of there living family members: Son, Daughter, Father, Mother, etc.. Within the same blood line as them, no step-family or people they have married. Depending on how closely related they are to the sacrifice determines the length of the vision, and its importance to them."
82,"Sisterhood of Silence, a highly trained group of criminals that direct the kingdoms court system through secret members and rituals/curses while also helping several criminals avoid the law. This sisterhood is rumored to have several hundred members all of which are female from many different races."
83,"Matriarchs of Society: Only women who have become Grandmothers are invited to join. In general they work to make sure their lines continue. Another of their tasks is to find homes for displaced children, adding this child to a Matriarch's list of grandchildren."
84,"The Leftovers club. A secret sect of necromancers gather as many dead bodies as they can, making deals with or stealing from butchers, morgues, hospitals, veterinarians, or local criminal organizations. These ""leftovers"" are given to two teams, who use a combination of necromantic techniques and surgery to create undead monsters. Once a month, a battle between the monsters is held, and the winning team is greatly rewarded. Once the battle is over, new teams are assigned and the cycle starts again."
85,"Barbers guild: with franchises in different towns (usually a rented room in an inn), The locals see travelers go in and come out with shorter hair or clean shave. In actuality, they are a front for information brokers."
86,"Thralls of the Crimson God. The Thralls believe that the only thing preventing the universe from destruction is to sate their god's need for blood: this includes ritual cutting, self-flagellation, and piercing as part of routine practice. The cult centers on human sacrifice, where a victim is drained of all of their blood in a ceremony to appeal to the Crimson God for mercy and protection."
87,"The Rosen Order: A group of powerful warriors brought together by their love of flowers. They tend to all the city's flower gardens, keeping them in tip-top shape. The existence of the order is kept secret; its members fear their reputations as mighty heroes being ruined if they are ever found out."
88,"The Fatladin: The secret group of the Paladin of Gras, God of the grease and good food, Avatar of Bacon. Gras has been forgotten, but not by these man, united in the Quest, to find the most greasy and wonderful food, to please their god."
89,The Teachers: The Teachers are a group of benevolent entities dedicated to training heroes to defend the world against evil.
90,"The Shadow Empire: The Shadow Empire is a small group of demi-liches who back villains. They are patient, quiet, and totally committed to the conquest of everything."
91,"The Stone Brotherhood: This is a dwarven cult dedicated to protecting dwarven craftsmen, and any other artisan they feel is unable to stand up for themselves."
92,"The Libra Facta: One of the oldest known cults, Libra Facta has its origins shrouded in the ancient history of the druids. From time immemorial, the druids and their neutral followers have been working quietly to neutralize and balance the powerful forces for law and chaos, good and evil. In Libra Facta, this task took a peculiar but effective form."
93,"The Mithril Chain was an order of knights, including cavaliers and fighters of all types. Very little is known of this organization, which boasted only a handful of members worldwide. Members of the Mithril Chain, known as ""Links"", often fought better than would be expected based on their known experience and abilities. In addition, some have been reported to display unusual powers, such as flying, creating fire, water, lightning, or light, passing through walls, or being unaffected by weapon attacks. Each wore a highly ornate steel chain around his neck; rarely were they seen together."
94,"The Ring of Blood was a band of chaotic assassins pledged to promote terror. Each member assassin performed at least one assassination per week, with at least one each month being notorious (usually a well-known individual or an especially gory slaying)."
95,"The Brotherhood of Death was a chaotic evil order dedicated to the worship and service of Orcus through the promotion of chaos especially in sadistic orgies and human, demihuman, or humanoid sacrifices. Although open to evil chaotics of any race or class, the inner circle was made up of outstanding adventurer types, and the hierarchy headed by human clerics and demons. Peasants and idle nobles could only be initiates; initiates were not generally aware of the secrets of the society."
96,"The Unending Alliance of the Beast: A quasi-Druidic cult that seeks out positions of power over animals; zoos, circuses, vet hospitals, all are used to train and foster a legion of animal servants who will eventually fight for their masters' glory. When and where that fight will happen, only the Alliance knows."
97,"Cult of the Eternal Flame: The followers of the Eternal Flame cult were fascinated by the destructive power of fire in all its manifestations. They aspired to use the power of fire to eradicate the ""corruption"" of both civilization and nature using volcanic eruptions, forest fires, heat waves, and droughts, in order to herald a new world of ash and cinders ruled by fire alone. In the fire cultists' doctrine, the world and all its peoples were wicked and malformed, and the only hope was to purify everything, reducing all to smoking cinders."
98,The Choir: Members of the Choir had the ability to influence others through their strange songs.
99,"The Silver Hand: A group of Paladins who are devoted to stopping evil, if it should ever appear. The members like to keep their identity secret so no harm comes to their families."
100,"Grumlik's ""Secret"" Order of Gnome Mischief: A 'secret' order of Gnomes who go around and cause mild mischief, such as placing a dead fish in the pillowcase of a noble lord. What is their reasoning? There isn't one, they are just mean."

d100,Entry

1,"Beware of the blinding red light. If you see this light, you must flee. It will only bring you death!"
2,"You will find the answer to a long, mysterious riddle in your family bloodline buried between two oak trees, west of the village you grew up in."
3,A path of death lies in your wake.
4,"Greed is a poor man’s compass, and I see gold and riches in your future."
5,A single wolf is slaughtered by many enemies that surround it. Let this be a warning sign of danger that is preventable by the pack.
6,The truth will come from a child’s toy. The lie will come from a weapon.
7,You must drink of the poison well and eat of the spoiled pantry.
8,"Follow the flight of birds, never in winter, always returning."
9,A song contains a wish. Only the name will answer.
10,The mother has disguised herself. Her babe is lost and will not return. She will nurse no other.
11,The gears turn long after the machine has been broken. He who built it cannot mend it. He who holds it cannot carry it. He who finds it cannot speak it.
12,"Gaze through the cracked window, and only then will you see clearly."
13,Beware the men with gills. Speak not to the sea or the southern wind.
14,"Beware the snake’s venom, not its bite."
15,"Travel five days with the silver star at your heels, then cross the raging river. There you will come to realize your true self."
16,The light will be in the shadowest darkness.
17,"Not all the frogs are in the pond, beware of them."
18,"One for the fire, two for the clouds, and three for the knights."
19,Don’t trust the song of the birds.
20,Cloak in the water. The man is crying. Let the leaf falls and everything will be fine.
21,"For one wish to make, it’ll be more wish to crumble."
22,In the high plain there’s a dark moon. Don’t follow the light.
23,"When the dawn will come at the birthday of the mother, rats and snakes will devour all hopes."
24,"Near the montains, there is a grey falcon. Look at the eyes, and you’ll die. Look at the tail, and you’ll be rich."
25,"Don’t move when the night song come, or you’ll gain something you don’t want, and lost something you wanted to keep."
26,"Today was possibly the most important day of your life! Congrat.. oh… you missed it… tsk tsk tsk… What a shame… A do-over, then! Tomorrow you will wake up and it will be today. Make sure you return or that decree will stay. k, Bye!"
27,Do not trust your thoughts. They will hinder your victory.
28,A figment in blue will cross your path tomorrow. You will know it when you see the sign. You must turn around 4 times and speak the following words:
29,And through the drifts the snowy clifts Did send a dismal sheen: Nor shapes of men nor beasts we ken The ice was all between.
30,"If you believe in telekinesis, raise my hand. The fortune teller then proceeds to raise their hand."
31,"When you are done, the spirit haunting will pass over you."
32,A dragon will give you a jewel. Beware the generous miser.
33,The path less traveled is paved in gold.
34,Find the woman who gives birds their song.
35,"Beware, young mouse, for the lion is thorned."
36,(Do/Do not) Cross the Mountain!
37,(1d10) Stars Mark the Path!
38,The Moon Shines Brightest to Those in Her Favor.
39,"Speak Not The Name Unspoken; They Listen, Always."
40,"Beware, for the Great Gyre is Nigh; The Slouching Beast Will Soon Arrive!"
41,Swords Shall Pierce Thine Heart; Pin Thy Love Lest It Be Lost.
42,Three Crones Shall Visit Thee and Thier Lights Shall Reveal the Truth of What Thou Doth Seek!
43,Keep a Candle Burning; Lest The Dark Take Even Your Fears Away.
44,Build Not Houses of White Stone.
45,"Three Coins Must Ye Pay; Three Prices Dear, Secrets Thrice Revealed, ‘ere The Light of Day."
46,"Gold, Silver, Copper; Never in the Opposite Order!"
47,Spill Forth a Dram for the Lost; Make Merry in the Name of Those Who Pay the Highest Price!
48,You Must Seek the Leaf that Grows Not On Any Tree!
49,Jump the Broom; Dance above the Blades!
50,"Sphinx of Black Quartz, Judge Thy Vow."
51,Seek the Egg of Stone; Face the Dragon!
52,"Your nights will grow colder still, to match the heat of growing fires."
53,"Trust the twin with no siblings, but abhor the lone child."
54,The face of the one you seek is thus- a busker at dawn; a composer at noon; a patron at dusk; a maestro under the stars.
55,"Your money, here, have it back. The fortune you’ve asked me to read, never shall I speak of it in this life or any hereafter."
56,A wilting lineage droops to shadowy lows. What the rotten fruit begets chokes out the tree of its birth.
57,Beware! Blessings from above may actually be curses from below!
58,A helping hand will come from an unlikely place. Trust it at your own peril.
59,When the leaves fall from the trees so too shall the stars fall from the sky.
60,The wisest men envy the grave.
61,The poison of the moon lies only once.
62,There be dragons in ye head. Make sure to feed them.
63,The treasure you are looking for is in the fruit.
64,"Poorly-dresed skanks like you will die alone. Naked, and alone. (Works best in an arctic setting, or not.)"
65,"Never bring upon yourself the wrath of the chicken. You may think this a metaphor, but it is not. Their beaks are sharp like my toes."
66,Your hands will taste of orange in the near future.
67,That which you hold most dear will turn against you and lead you to ruin
68,"Your actions have had unintended and unforeseeable consequences, and have placed into action the final piece of that which now approaches you. You are the harbinger of your own death"
69,The thoughts you have had but not put into action are leading you down a path to your own undoing
70,The fall of slow rain upon the barren field will lead you to the house which shelters your destiny
71,Steel your heart for darkness ahead. Your betrayal has already happened though you do not yet know it.
72,Seek ye the good behind the bad and beware the bad behind the good.
73,"Never lick a horse in the mouth, they bite."
74,A Fall is Coming; Winter Just Round the Bend; Enjoy Spring; Summer Shall Bring An End!
75,"Let Not Cold Enter Your Heart, For Then Only Love Can Drive It Out!"
76,The black sky will shield you from your enemies. Travel by night.
77,The rope with which you climb may also hang you if you are not careful.
78,You will be an old man/woman by the time your quest is complete.
79,Fools will take great heed of your words. Use this to your advantage.
80,A shrewd and very attractive fortune teller has put a curse on you. I will remove it for an additional sum.
81,Trust not the travelers numbering odd.
82,"Take something old, give something new, doubt something red, trust something blue."
83,"Left at the stream, at the face look right, crawl through the dark, and you will find the light!"
84,"Salt thy wounds, relish the sting, sweet is the knave, and bold is the king."
85,"Thrice will call the raven, heed its warn lest the fourth cry your dirge."
86,"Between silver and gold, choose evil’s bane. Between fire and chill, the lady’s kiss."
87,"The shadow of the dragon is an omen, but coming of the wolf is the sign."
88,"Begrudge not the thieving monkey, lest you take its place in the tiger’s jaws."
89,"Lay not your head in the barn animals’ bed, for the headsman soon calls."
90,"A copper for the maid, a silver to the beggar, and a gold for a lonely tune, may the vault of riches open to you."
91,"Someone you remember, someone you forget, someone with a favor, another with a threat."
92,"Poor fortune for ye, unless you confess your guilt to the willow tree."
93,Your luck is a shame until you trade with your mate who has one of the same.
94,A fortune most cold if you do as you’re told.
95,"Torch and candle, wax and wick, in the hall of fire, move right quick!"
96,"Look for the priestess, she will bring salvation."
97,An ancient empire will rise from the waves along with ancient secrets.
98,Only when the lovers are reunited can the curse be broken.
99,"As the hermit emerges from hiding, darkness shall soon emerge as well."
100,"Watch for a nobleman in red, for he is a devil in disguise."

d100,Entry

1,"Just a chicken. A regular old chicken, in a cage."
2,A goblin with wings crudely sewn on. It cannot speak and only squaks like a bird.
3,A bunch of mechanical wands that create sparks (he was trying to replicate magic but never got it right).
4,A Rube-Goldberg device that cooks breakfast.
5,A dusty box covered in strange magical runes. Inside the box is dozens of human souls.
6,Several half made constructs that look surprisingly like the party.
7,A potion that either heals for 50 HP or automatically brings you down to 1. There is a 50% chance of either.
8,A kobold with the head of a pig and a pig with the head of a kobold.
9,A mind flayer being dissected on a table.
10,A cryogenically frozen man who can be rescued by the party.
11,A gun that spews fire or mildly warm air.
12,A gun that spews ice or mildly chilled air.
13,A glass vat of pixies dissolving in acid. The vat is in the center of a chalk drawn magic circle. If the circle is broken the vat explodes spraying acid across the floor.
14,Jars of pickled monster parts. The parts are still alive and move/twitch every so often.
15,A music box that only plays when closed.
16,A sprouted plant that grows a different flower every morning.
17,"Thirty-seven toy soldiers that always turn away from someone looking at them, but otherwise don't move."
18,"The upper body of a warforge, who is currently conscious."
19,The lower body of a warforge that'll kick anyone that gets too close.
20,"A very large device in the back of the room, full of moving parts and glowing pieces, it's in tip top shape, cleaner than any other thing in the lab. Ten buttons labelled with an ancient script are on the front of the machine, upon pressing one, the device whirrs to life, steam arising from ever crack in the machine, the machine emits a loud clanking noise, as if a box of nuts were falling down a set of stairs. After 15 minites of this process the machine produces a cup of coffee. Each of the buttons is a different coffee setting."
21,A demon contained within a circle covered in runes.
22,"A Cybernetic (animal, animal hybrid, demon, humanoid, monster). This creature is (asleep in a corner, chained to a table, chained to a wall, acting as a lab assistant, reading notes & mumbling to itself, standing guard, wearing a lab coat & performing various experiments)."
23,Brain in a jar with eyes that watch you as you move around the room.
24,Strange device shooting off large electrical sparks. anyone who gets too close gets zapped.
25,Strange glowing crystal that seems to be held in some kind of containment field or an armor plated container with a viewing window.
26,"Chalkboard with lots of mathematical formula, diagrams, or observations scrawled on it."
27,"Stacks of notes with hastily written formula, diagrams, or observations written on them."
28,Vats of various chemicals.
29,A flamethrower.
30,"An operating table. (empty clean, empty stained, animal, hybrid animal, humanoid, monster, stitched together creature, dissection)."
31,"Tools (electronic) - electric meters, forceps, soldering tools, tweezers, wires, wire cutters, wire strippers, etc"
32,"Tools (mechanical) - files, hammers, pliers, screwdrivers, wrenches, saws, tweezers, etc."
33,"Tools (medical) - bone saws, forceps, hypodermic needles, scalpels, sewing needles, tweezers, etc."
34,"Lab Aprons covered in (blood, dried blood, grease, oil, unknown substance, unknown glowing substance)."
35,Lab Aprons that have been partially burned by fire or eaten by acid.
36,Full Hazmat Suit.
37,Gas Masks.
38,Heavy Duty Rubber Gloves.
39,"Lots of glass vials & beakers. some are labeled, some hold an unknown substance."
40,An extremely heavy duty operating table with a winch above it for moving something heavy.
41,"Lots of cages full of (animals, hybrid animals, humanoids, monsters, stitched together creatures, zombies)."
42,"Lots of cylindrical storage units with (animals, hybrid animals, humanoids, monsters, partially formed creatures, stitched together creatures, zombies) floating in some kind of (gel, goo, liquid). Creatures are (alive despite injuries, asleep, awake but drugged, flailing about trying to escape)."
43,An incinerator for failed experiments.
44,A moldy sandwich on a plate. Your not sure if it was simply forgotten about or if it's one of the experiments.
45,"An extremely heavy metal door, that has been dented & slightly bent outward from the other side. The door itself is jammed shut."
46,"A chalk line drawn on the floor with the words 'minimum safe distance' drawn in front of a (cage, glowing crystal, strange device, strange plant)."
47,A pile of bodies of failed experiments that starts moving and fighting when the party interacts with it.
48,"A bunch of failed owlbear like animal crossovers. Roll 2 d6 (1 owl, 2 wolf, 3 shark, 4 iguana, 5 beetle, 6 bear)."
49,"Flasks with various colored liquids in them and an assortment of labels that aren't stuck to the flasks yet. Nearby, there's a paper with labels written and scratched off as someone tries to figure out which label goes where."
50,"A brick of black granite, with a summoning circle carved into the top of it. A pentagram and eye-watering runes that remain fuzzy no matter how much you concentrate on them have been etched into the top of it and filled in with a silver inlay. Wires rise up from the pentagram to above the center of the block where they meet up in a small ring, inside of which sits a regular old chicken egg. A large rusty electrical switch sits next to the block, with wires running into between them. If your flip the switch the pentagram and runes light up, and sparks travel from them up the wires to the egg, and then the sparks disappear. If you then crack open the egg, you find that it was scrambled inside it's own shell."
51,A metal ball with space to hold it and a trigger inside that causes white hot flames to shoot out of it which adds +2 fire damage to punches/unarmed strikes. Can also be used to join two pieces of metal.
52,"A potion brewing setup smoking and bubbling. Included with the setup is a paper mache volcano filled with baking soda and acid with a vinegar vial sitting temptingly next to it, and a tiny oven marked 'E-Z-27' cooking a iced muffin with only a candle, smelling delicious and daring to be eaten."
53,A cage with invisible rats.
54,A large cabinet full of blood samples of creatures of the under dark.
55,A mapped out globe of an unknown planet.
56,A modified iron maiden that can be used to infuse poison into the body.
57,A glass container with a pink liquid that seems to be alive.
58,Imperfect clones of the scientist.
59,A young dragon inside a containment cell.
60,Animated pants.
61,Animated Plants
62,An unfinished autobiography entitled 'Before I Was Mad'.
63,A walking banzai tree that shakes its branches to communicate.
64,Two and three headed rats scurrying about.
65,Suit of Chainmail armor that does 1d6 lightning damage to attackers. Can be used 3x a day.
66,"A cat that's purring intensely. When it opens its mouth to meow, you can see this is because it's actually just full of bees."
67,Innumerable tiny shoes next to a terrarium full of millipedes.
68,Alchemy jars full of urine.
69,A flintlock pistol filled with sugar in the barrel.
70,Schematics of a biological experiment gone horribly wrong that the party will have to face later.
71,A trapped Kenku capable of standard speech (as opposed to regular ones that can only mimic sounds).
72,"The corpse of the scientist (starved, horribly mutilated, beaten, burned, frozen, gone peacefully in his sleep)."
73,A newly invented musical instrument with a guide on how to use it.
74,A jar of powerful hallucinogenic mushrooms next to sketches of increasingly horrible monsters.
75,"A sealed letter detailing his research into the current monarchy/regime, evidence against them, and a sentiment of how he knows he’s not alive if anyone’s reading the letter."
76,A pen of various homunculi playing with each other.
77,"Newspapers and/or notes piled high from years of collection, some stained or fading."
78,A cellar of severely spoiled meats and cheeses.
79,"A bag that simply remakes itself when damaged, can’t be thrown in the incinerator."
80,"A small vial of Bone Rot, a liquid that simply melts through flesh and bone."
81,"A botanical garden that can make whatever plant you need, within reason."
82,A pack of “Magic Cheese Triangles” and a jug of “Dew of the Mountain”.
83,A gauntlet that can deliver poisons by touch.
84,Various needles that either heal or damage 1d10.
85,A necklace of assorted teeth in a display case. You’re not sure if it’s enchanted or just weird.
86,"A miniature boxing ring with two 1-foot high automatons fighting each other, one painted red and the other painted blue. The red one shoots fire and the blue one shoots ice."
87,"Skeletons displayed showcasing past failed experiments with plaques that say “Experiment 81-C”, “Experiment DC-14”, etc."
88,"A framed diploma from “MSU, Mad Science University”."
89,"A letter from the Mad scientist’s mother, asking about the weather, making sure he’s getting enough sleep, etc., signed, “Love you sweetheart! -Mommy” with a heart."
90,A toupee in a glass box that growls and barks at passerby.
91,A copy of each of your PC without eyes and mouth. Just blank clones attached to any kind of device.
92,"A lever that even when switched, turns off the lights. The lever is not connected to anything that should turn off said lights."
93,Hair styling gel that brings hair to life.
94,A bunch of Siamese Twins preserved in a huge vat of brine.
95,A small jar filled with a salve that makes skin turn transparent.
96,A large wooden box with a lid on it that reads 'Gullibility test #001. Please take ring of wishing from box and wish for gold. This is not a trap.' Anyone opening the box gets a mild electric shock and finds a slightly smaller box that reads 'Gullibility test #002. Please take ring of wishing from box and wish for gold. This is not a trap.'
97,"A large and complex factional distillation apparatus, with vials and flasks of liquids and powders of many colors and textures. Behind them are several bins of deceased animals with various parts poorly grafted onto them from other animals."
98,"Dozens and dozens of well-tended aquariums, some of which contain normal aquatic life, reptiles, arthropods, annelids etc. Others contain entirely unknown species."
99,A goblin centipede (A goblin with dozens of legs).
100,"A sentient talking egg pie that has been listening to the mad scientist's ramblings. The pie also has the ability to gather the subconscious thoughts of whoever passes by, so the pie knows the entire layout of the mad scientist's home/lab. However, it has (ironically) a deathly allergy to eggs other than its own. Also, should someone eat a piece of the pie, they will gain some of its knowledge and a permanent increase to intellect."

